This is a transcript by Andy Rachleff teaching a class on Product Market Fit

Okay. Perf perfect. Okay, so this is meant to be a summary of a course that I teach at Stanford Graduate School of Business that's called Aligning Startups with Their Markets. And it's all about finding a compelling product market fit. So the first thing that you have to understand is that execution doesn't matter. Now I know that's the exact opposite of everything that you've ever learned in school, but unless the dogs want to eat your dog food, you don't have a business. So why worry about execution? The only thing that matters is product market fit. Now, finding a compelling product market fit has recently become a science thanks to the contributions of these four great authors. Whoops, got a little ahead of me there. First we have Clay Christensen on the left, then Howard Marks an illustrious Wharton grad, Jeffrey Moore and Eric Reese. Now you might know them better for their books. 

The Innovator's Dilemma, the most important thing Illuminated Crossing the Chasm and the Lean Startup. This morning I'm gonna show you how they fit together to help you launch successful products. Now, I know many of you might be familiar with Eric Reese's book, the Lean Startup, as it's been all the rage in the entrepreneurial world. But for today's purpose, I prefer to use the Old Testament, Steve Blank's, four steps to the epiphany, the book on which the lien startup is based. Okay, so let me get into this. First I wanna talk about Howard Marks. So you might've heard Howard's name. He was a trustee at the university. He is now an emeritus trustee. He's as famous for his quarterly letter to his investors as he is for his tremendous returns as the chairman of a hedge fund called Oaktree. Now Oak Tree is focused on distressed debt. 

So in Howard's quarterly letters, he's become famous for describing the investment business with a two by two matrix. And I think that this two by two matrix is equally applicable to entrepreneurship as it is to investing. So as you can see on one dimension you can be right or wrong, and the other dimension you can be consensus or non-consensus. And what you might not realize, what you, obviously, if you are wrong, you don't make money. But what you might not realize is that if you're right in consensus, you don't make money. That's because all of the returns get arbitraged away. The only way that you make a lot of money or outperform the market is by being right and non-consensus. Now, success in the right and non-consensus quadrant requires change because only change, only through change is their opportunity. And in our case, in the technology business, change is represented by an inflection point in technology. 

To recognize these inflection points, you must have great authenticity or to the topic or command of your topic. The challenge is you know you're non-consensus, but you don't know if you're right. But if you are right, you're likely to be very successful because risk is highly correlated with return. And going for something that's non-consensus is very high risk. If, if your idea is non-consensus, then by definition not everyone should like your idea. Think about how people must have first reacted to eBay, Airbnb or Uber. When they described the, when the entrepreneurs who founded those companies described those ideas, the vast majority of people thought those were the dumbest ideas they'd ever heard. The challenge of getting people to adopt something that's non-consensus leads me to discussion of Jeffrey Moore's technology product adoption cycle or lifecycle. So every product follows a very similar adoption cycle. First, you serve the innovators. 

These are the enthusiasts in the consumer world. They're the people who want to be the first to buy every new gadget in the corporate world. They're the research lab that has to try everything, but they're not willing to pay anything. These people are absolutely worthless. You don't wanna waste any time on them. Then come to the early adopters. They're the visionaries In the consumer world. There are people who have a problem that they wanna be, want to have solved, and as long as you provide a proof of concept, they're willing to buy it. In the corporate world, it's usually a manager who wants to get ahead, who has a problem in his or her business unit, and if she can solve that problem, it's really going to lead to significant growth in her career. Now, early adopters, the visionaries could care less about references. All they care about is whether or not you solve their point of pain. 

Next comes by far the biggest chunk of the market. It's even not drawn to scale in this chart, the early majority or the pragmatists. These people want things that are evolutionary, not revolutionary. Early adopters want things that are revolutionary. The early majority only caress about references. So even if they desperately need your product and and you give it to them at a fair price, they will not buy it unless at least five people have told them it's a really good idea to buy the product after the early majority comes, the late majority or the conservatives, these are the people who only buy once a product becomes a standard and then finally come the laggards they never buy. So 

You'll find is the biggest mistake that entrepreneurs make is they try to go after the early majority first because it's the biggest part of the market. And you'll often get advice that you should go after the biggest markets possible. That's true, but you have to stage how you go after those big markets. If you go after the early majority, first think about it, you have no references. So they have no desire to buy your product until you get those references. Now, a chasm exists between the early adopters and the early majority. You need to start with the early adopters, build references, and then you can cross the chasm into the early majority. Now what the only way to do this is to create what's known as the whole product. So it's the product that you're shipping plus third party inter plus interfaces, third party tools and services that make the product appropriate for a larger audience. 

Now, how do you know where to start on this path to the whole product? To answer this question, Steve Blank created a tremendous framework called the customer development process. Basically it's the scientific method applied to business. You create and test value and growth hypotheses before you ramp your business. So let me explain what I mean by this. We start with a value hypothesis. It should define the what, the who, and the how of your business. By that I mean what are you going to build for whom is it relevant and what's the business model? You then test this value hypothesis with a minimum viable product. There's nothing like real customer feedback. So you need to get a product in the customer's hands. If they're not willing to buy the M V P, they're not gonna buy a more fully featured product. This is another very significant mistake that entrepreneurs make. 

So you ship the the minimum viable product, it's usually not going to succeed. You then iterate on the market. You don't iterate on the product. This is the third significant mistake that entrepreneurs make. So you don't change the product for the market. You find a market that wants your product, you keep iterating on this and you constantly iterate through a series of experiments where you test these hypotheses. If one of your experiments fails, you want to fail fast and cheap because the odds of your first hypothesis being correct are extremely low. And you don't wanna waste all your money be find before you find that product market fit. Now, you might be surprised to learn that almost no successful technology companies succeeded in their original business plan. Apple, Google, Facebook, LinkedIn, Salesforce, you name a comp a really successful company and I guarantee you they didn't succeed on their original business plan. 

Now you keep iterating on these set of experiments until you find a surprise and then you know you've really hit a nerve. And as Scott Cook of Intuit, Scott Cook is the founder of Intuit and the best product guy that I've ever met who's taught me, you should savor that surprise by focusing solely on it. Now, once you've confirmed your value hypothesis, and only once you've confirmed your value U hypothesis, could you move on to your growth hypothesis? A growth hypothesis determines how you're gonna grow your customer base in a cost effective fashion. You, excuse me, you then need to keep iterating on your growth hypothesis through a series of experiments until you found something that works and then you double down on that. I like to call this process looking for the good, fixing the the deficiencies in your product or the complaints that your customers have. 

Seldom leads to more growth. This is really counterintuitive, but enhancing what is working actually leads to more growth. So what you do is you find what works and then you create a series of experiments to AB test how to actually improve upon the thing that people like. Now trying to grow before you're absolutely sure your customers love your product is a complete waste of time. I don't know if you all remember a product called Social Cam that you might have seen on your Facebook feed, but it got to 50 million downloads because the company did a phenomenal job of forcing virality through Facebook. They ended up getting tons of growth. I think they got 50 million downloads, but it was a really crappy product that didn't really solve anybody's needs. So no one ended up using it for more than two days. So this was a complete waste of time. 

Getting a lot of downloads that people aren't willing to use is worthless there. If any of you watch the show Silicon Valley, they really focused on this issue in the last season. So by the way, your M V P can be really small, or it might have to be really big. Qualcomm, which is the biggest supplier of technology to the cell phone world in order to get their technology adopted, which was called C D M A in a time when the world was using a different technology called T D M A, they couldn't get anyone to manufacture the handsets and the infrastructure equipment. So they actually had to build it all in order to get a carrier to try their technology. That was a really, really big M V P. So minimum means different things in different contexts. So you need to charge for your product really early on if it's not advertising based. 

If you wanna build an advertising based business model, then you want to get as many eyeballs as you can before you start trying to get people to advertise on your service. But if you're pursuing one of the other two types of business models, which is either subscription or transaction or based, you wanna charge as soon as you possibly can because if people aren't willing to pay for your M V P, they're not gonna pay for a more fully featured product because you haven't really hit a nerve, you haven't hit a point of pain. Customers only need a good enough alternative to not use your product better. Doesn't matter if a good enough alternative exists, they're not going to use your product. That's why you re, you need to find customers who are desperate. Now this concept that better doesn't matter, is critical to Clay Christensen's disruption theory. 

Now you'll hear the term disruption used by a lot of people and it's almost always used incorrectly. So let me explain what Christensen, who coined the term meant by disruption on the the chart in front of you. You can see time plotted against performance of a particular product. And you'll notice that over time customers can use slightly more capability, but there's a limit as to how much more capability in your product they can use. Now, when a new company enters a market, initially they ship a product that is less featured than a customer can actually use. And over time they continue to improve their product through what Christensen calls sustaining innovations. And you'll notice on the right hand side of this chart that the sustaining innovations actually are beyond what a customer can use. This leads leaves an opportunity for someone to come in that delivers something that's simpler, cheaper, and more convenient, but not nearly as capable. 

But because the existing clients are overserved, there's an opportunity for someone to come in and serve people who are underserved with something that's simpler, cheaper, or more convenient. That's what's meant by disruptive. So there are two types of disruptions. There's something called a new market disruption and a low end disruption. A new market disruption targets non-consumers and a low end disruption is something that's simpler, cheaper, or more convenient. So let me give you examples of each of these things. So eBay was a classic new market disruption. When they entered the market, there were many auction companies, the leader of which was probably Sotheby's, but its served a very, very high-end clientele. The minimum price of something that you can buy through Sotheby's is probably $20,000. So there's no way that Sotheby's would help you sell things in your garage. Along came eBay that allowed you to sell things for as little as a dollar. 

That's a classic new market disruption. They serve people who could not consume what Sotheby's offered. When Oracle started, relational databases were only available on mainframes and they made them available on many computers. This is something that I b m didn't serve. So by making that available for people who had bought mini computers, they solved a new market. Examples of low-end disruptions are Dell and Amazon. When Dell started, the leader in the space was a company called Compact, which is now owned by Hewlett. Packard Comp was a multi-billion dollar revenue business that sold personal computers through resellers. Now their business model was to make a 40% gross margin when they sold to the to the reseller, and then the reseller had to mark up the product again to the end user and they made a 20% gross margin. Dell sold products directly to end users that had approximately the same cost that Compact did, but they only charged you 25% gross margin. 

So in other words, Dell was selling products to end users at a lower price than Compact was selling to the retail channel. Now, Dell couldn't go around the retail channel and sell direct because if they did, the retailers would've gone to another manufacturer and as a publicly traded company, they couldn't take the risk that they would lose 20 or 40% of their revenue. That's a classic disruption. Amazon did the same thing to Barnes and Noble. They went direct to the consumer at a price well below Barnes and Noble. And if Barnes and Noble had tried to meet the Amazon price, they would've destroyed their own economics. And as a publicly traded company that would've destroyed their their stock price. So a disruption is something that's uneconomic for the incumbent to address. Now this creates an innovator's dilemma, which is the name of Clay Christensen's first book Competing with the disruptor will kill your economics, but not competing with the disruptor leaves you open to them getting a toehold in the market, improving their product over time, through sustaining innovations and destroying you later. 

That's the dilemma. You're damned if you do and damned if you don't. You always wanna create a dilemma for your competitor because it's an amazing competitive advantage. Interestingly, many of the most successful companies start as new market disruptions and become low end disruptions over time through their business model advantage. So let me give you a couple examples of that. Intuit started with a, which is a, a phenomenal company based in the Valley and personal finance started with a personal finance product called Quicken. This was the old fashioned version of Mint that you know today, which interestingly was acquired by Intuit. Mint was a personal finance tool that was offered for individuals and sold for about $35 per unit. Well back when we used to sell personal computer software. Now, something funny happened, there were a lot of businesses, very small businesses that started to use Quicken as their accounting package because they didn't wanna spend the 3000 to $5,000 for a small business accounting package. 

Now, Quicken was never intended to be an accounting package for small businesses, but it was a surprise that Intuit found. And as I told you before, Scott Cook, the founder of Intuit, believes that you should savor surprises all of the value and the likely growth in your business will come from that surprise. So Intuit ended up building a really, really simple and easy to use accounting package for small businesses and they sold it for a hundred dollars versus the then competitors who were at three to $5,000. So they ended up building something that was simpler, cheaper, and more convenient than the alternative and thereby became a low-end disruption. Now, most people don't realize this, but when Google started the ad no business model, it took them about two and a half years and they finally came upon AdWords, which is the ability to create a text ad, a self-service text ad that can be acquired with a credit card. 

Well, prior to Google's text ads, the only internet ads you could buy were display ads. Those graphical ads you see on many webpages. Now, a display ad required a graphic designer to actually do the design, and if you were a small company, you might have to outsource that. So it might cost you $2,000 to hire the graphic designer to build the ad for you. And then display ads were sold through a direct sales force. And in order to make a sales call, economic companies like Yahoo had to charge a minimum of $10,000 a month in order to justify the expensive sale call they had to made to a company. So the minimum order size was $12,000. So this was not cost effective for a startup to do so. All of the advertisers of display ads were big companies, Intuit, or excuse me, Google offered this text ad that you could buy for as little as $1. 

Now a picture is worth a thousand words. So a text ad of only six words wasn't very compelling to big companies. So guess what? The early adopters of the Google ad words were all startups who couldn't afford to pay for the display ads. Now, once Google was able to prove the cost effectiveness of what they did, then companies moved from display ads to text ads, which is now the dominant way for people to advertise on the internet. So they use their business model advantage to move from a new market disruption to a low end disruption, something that was simply cheaper, not and more convenient. So this leads me to believe it's not products that are disruptive, it's business models. So we should say disruptive. I think Christensen made a a mistake when he referred to companies offering disruptive products. I think he really should have said dis disrupt or disruptive technologies. 

He really should have said disruptive business models. Okay, so let me now bring this all together into a summary. Now obviously if you're wrong, you don't make any money and if you try to pursue something that's right in consensus, by definition, it's a sustaining technology. And the incumbents have a tremendous advantage when something is sustaining and not disruptive. So this means that you're going after the fat part of the market where the incumbents have a huge brand and investment advantage. It's really difficult to unseed an incumbent if they already have a strong product market fit, you're not gonna out execute them. The place you wanna be is in the right and non-consensus quadrant. Since you don't know if you are right, only if you're non-consensus, you need to initially focus on non-consumers who are early adopters and constantly iterate on your value and then your growth hypothesis if you hope to create a beachhead from which you can grow. Now following this path won't assure you of success, but it sure will improve your odds. And with that, let me open it up to questions. Awesome, thank.
