This is a transcript of a discussion and lecture with Microsoft CEO, Satya Nadella, and Greylock Partner, Reid Hoffman. There is a Q&A with the class lecture




Reid Hoffman: Thank you very much for coming. You're, you're, you're a treasured part of, of our network and our community and, and as is Satya. So it was one of the things that we, when we said, well, who should I kind of come and talk to Silicon Valley about both for what's kind of going on in interesting tech and for Blitzscaling, my very first choice with Satya, we, we, we worked this out and was awesome. This is one of those places where Satya doesn't need an introduction. You're all here 'cause of him. You know who I am. I don't need an introduction, so we're not gonna waste any time with that. Right. The real thing is to get to interesting content and we're gonna actually ask each other questions. Like, part of the thing when we were talking about is like, Satya was like, no, no, I'd like to be interviewing you. 
And I was like, no, I'd like to be interviewing you. And so we said, okay, we settled. Right. And we'll both ask questions because I have the pleasure of the, the first of the mic. What I will actually start with is, I think a question a close and dear to Satya's heart, which is that Blitzscaling kind of AP applies in a number of circumstances, including kind of changing the culture of a company as you take over. And we'll get to like a little bit later when I'll ask some questions about Microsoft being one of the original Blitzscaling companies and kind of what did that look like? But let's start with a kind of cultural question. 'cause I think one of the things that I've had the delight to see in collaboration with you and the board is literally the rapidity at which the kind of the culture and the thought, the, the way that the growth psychology, the approach to market, the approach to collaboration, the approach to this is how we operate changing at speed. 
Right? And you know, it would in some senses would be a surprise because you're a long-term Microsoft, right? You would think you would like, well I've, I've been read in this other successful culture, but I have to change it. So say a little bit about kind of how you, how you thought about that change and then how you thought about, about scaling that change quickly and powerfully through the org. Oh wait, I have something else to do first. That's, yes, you're right. Sorry, I was starting with my very first question. Different question. Paul Allen. Yes. So obviously it's a huge loss. He has not only been a powerful industrialist, but also a, a massive contributor to Microsoft. Why don't you say a little bit about kind of what he meant to you and also a little bit about what he meant to Microsoft.

Satya Nadella: Absolutely. I mean, and, and you know, it's, it's a, it's a, a very sad day for us at Microsoft. I mean, Paul is someone I've gotten to know a lot more, in fact since becoming c e o is one of these, I would say understated human beings who did a lot, who did a lot for us, obviously as a company having founded it for our industry and the community in Seattle, he is done so much that, you know, he'll be missed sorely and more than anything else, I think Paul is one of these people who was always curious, you know, you meet him, you would never think of him as, wow, this is the guy who actually founded Microsoft. He was always asking me on what's next. And I always found that to be an amazing attribute of his and his curiosity and his generosity for everything that he did, it will be surely missed. 
In fact, it ties a bit to your question because you asked about our, our culture, you know, and I was talking to a a, a group of founders, even the Greylock in the gr Greylock portfolio companies. And I, I sort of feel, and I, what I said to them about this culture thing was I consider myself as a mayor Mortal, c e o, who took over from someone who was not a founder but had founder status. Steve, for all intensive purposes. Paul and Bill started the company. And in some sense, Steve and Bill scaled it. And I made a conscious decision. Even I grew up in the company and I made this conscious decision that I'm gonna make culture something explicit that I myself will talk about. It's interesting, I found that at least in founder company companies led by founders culture is sort of implicit. 
A lot of it is bound up with who the founder is because they've grown and obviously scaled it from nothing to what it is. But especially for a C E O taking over, I recognize the need for me to have much more of a conversation being an insider I could call it for what it was, right? In the sense I, you know, the good and the bad, I represented it. So there was no denying it. It's not like I could say, Hey, I came from the outside in, in an interesting way. I had credibility to criticize Microsoft without it appearing as criticism. That's at least how I think and the advantage of an insider because there's always the debate about the outsider versus the insider. The insider does have an advantage because you can say it in a way and do things in a way that it's not viewed as criticism. 
If anything, it's viewed as being intellectually honest. And I always used to say at Microsoft, we had like this amazing advantage called Bill Gates. And then we had an amazing disadvantage called a bunch of people who were roaming around Microsoft thinking they were Bill Gates. And, and, and that was really in the gist of it, I, in the late nineties, I distinctly remember that the numb, the hubris that it set in, you know, that distinction between what you contributed versus the rocket ship you rode becomes sort of kinda blurred for a lot of people when success comes and especially when success comes easy. And, and I, so that's one of the reasons why I went on the search. And weirdly enough, the place where I found the metaphor for at least having that cultural log, you know, conversation was a book I'd read, my wife would introduce me to it called Mindset like maybe four, five years before I became c e o. 
And Carol Dweck, you know, at Stanford, she has the simple metaphor, right? Which is if you have two kids in school, one of them has got a lot of innate capability, but is a know-it-all, the other one has less innate capability is a learn it all. You know how the story ends, the learn it all does better than the know-it-all. And it's true for students in school, it's true for CEOs, it's true and it's true. And, and so we, we took that and really, and, and, and sometimes people will say, Hey, this growth mindset is interesting, Satya, I found the 10 people at Microsoft who don't have a growth mindset. And that's not the point. The point is not to go look around for 10 people at Microsoft who don't have the culture. It's the, the thing that I love about this growth mindset is the ability to confront fixed mindset. 
In other words, I have to be comfortable admitting that I have a fixed mindset. And every day what you do is your best job at trying to confront it. And so, and if anything to your scale point, right? If you go back to the blitzscaling thing, I don't think this cultural renewal at Microsoft would've happened, but for two fundamental reasons. One is we did not think of it as a one-time transformation from attribute A, B, C to attribute X, Y, Z. It is going to be a continuous journey. And in fact, I'm very, very careful not to celebrate some destination reached Second is, it was not viewed as new dogma from a new c e o because if it was that, if it this didn't have that attribute or foundationally appealing to the human and us, all of us, then I don't think it would've worked. And so the fact that, you know, you don't do growth mindset or confront your fixed mindset to be a better employee at Microsoft, you do it because you'll be a better parent, a better partner, a better colleague, and a better leader. And the fact that it speaks to your entirety of your life is what probably really helped us. 

Reid Hoffman: And what were the first couple of moves that you did to start trying to get it to spread? Like what was the, what was, was it an, was it, was it a exec level? Was it the kind of the corporate executive level? Was it like, what was the set of things of here's how we need to, to, to, to shift course and going this continuous learning path? 

Satya Nadella: The the biggest thing in retrospect, I understand the power of this a lot more. We are 130,000 people in the company and I've learned a lot, I learned a lot about what does it mean to be C because nobody teaches you, hey, here is how you'll be a C E O of 130,000 person company. You suddenly get flopped in and you, here you are. And at that scale, the simplicity of what your overarching framework, I mean if you look at it, there's not a single meeting at Microsoft that I don't somehow manage to go to our mission and our culture. And I've done it now close to five years. It's boring as hell for me, but I do it and I am so disciplined about it because that is my unit of scale. If I, the day I stop doing it, the entire motion sort of will fall apart. 
And so to your point, consistency was one of the most biggest things that you underestimate. And especially if you are the one who you, you keep repeating and you think, God, I've said this, I should change it a little. Make it a little more novel and interesting. Don't, and as you scale, stop inventing new things that you talk about, especially around your so sense of purpose and mission and culture. And then we had practical things. We picked I would say three key areas because it's an abstract thing. What the heck does it mean to confront your fixed mindset? We said, Hey look, it's easy to do. Take customers, listen to them, don't go just pitch to them, but get behind. And whether you are a engineer sort of looking at a log file or a salesperson, both sides can in fact go deeper on what are the customers really trying to say? 
What is behind those words? Take inclusion and diversity. Talk about that area that every day you can practice. You know, you go into a meeting, you have a diverse group of people and you know, people who are, you know, come from different backgrounds are not able to get their word. Edgewise happens quite a bit at Microsoft. And so you then you say, okay, how can I as a leader or as I as a participant change the culture as we speak? It's the living, breathing culture, not the abstract one. The other one we've had our challenges were we all had gotten organized into these beautiful business units and we would metric them to hell and we would measure everything. And it was great. Except once they're all rear view, you know, views, right? Which is, they were all categories that had gotten created long time ago and they were not as relevant. 
We needed to mix up. If you look at, we made a big structural change too, by the way. That was one of the biggest changes I did, which is we, we had a hundred thousand person company other than LinkedIn that we operate in somewhat our gaming, that we operate in a much more loosely federated way. It's a functional org. And it's not because I'm sort of like I love functional orgs, but I needed to do that. And in fact, Steve got us started on that in order to make sure that the company was not stuck in an org configuration that was backward looking. And we could actually, from silicon all the way to a gaming experience, rethink everything from the product we build to the business model. And so those are all the things that we had to explicitly go do. Yep. 

Reid Hoffman: Well one of the things about the keep saying the same thing is kind of, I, I look at that as establishing a frequency. It's almost like let's harmonize all the same frequency. And I just came from a micro version of that, which is when you're on media tour, you're saying the same thing again and again and again. And you're like, really? Aren't people bored? I'm bored. But you, you try not to to show that. And actually the funniest thing I think that made me stronger at that was the masters of the scale podcast. Yeah. Because as you're saying, as you're kind of like reading a script and you're trying to convey excitement about this, that even when you're reading a script, how do you, how do you have people share that journey with you even though you're like reading the script for the third, fourth time as a way of doing it. 

Satya Nadella: Yeah. But talk about the, this idea of scaling though. What is your perspective for a large company like ours? Because in some sense you think about in your book you do have the hierarchy, right? It starts with a family and goes all the way to the nation or the globe. But if you sort of had to reflect a company like Microsoft or any one of the other large companies, what does it mean though? What does a blitz scaling mean for a large company? 

Reid Hoffman: So I'll, I'll open with, and you know some, some of you have had a chance to read the book, but obviously most of you have not yet with the definition of blitzscaling, which is the precise one is prioritizing speed over efficiency in an environment of uncertainty. And the uncertainty part is a really important part of this. Because actually in fact if you have certainty like you know what your customer acquisition cost is, you know what your exact competitive landscape, your unit economics, your L T V, then you can still scale fast, but you know how to do it in a relatively efficient way. You don't actually have a lot of foot faults. You know, it's a bit of a spectrum, but you still have that. So the uncertainty is actually, I don't know what my customer acquisition cost is. I don't really necessarily know what my total addressable market is. 
I have an idea that I can get to good unit economics, but I don't, I don't per se know that. And, and then speed over efficiency is, well actually in fact I still need to get to scale very fast. Usually driven by competition, right? Usually kind of the uber circumstance. We open the book with Wimdu and, and and MDU and Airbnb actually we're gonna do a post on MDU probably this week, maybe next week. 'cause it just announced it was shutting down. It was kind of a, it's an interesting arc for the whole, for the whole kind of arch of this. And so usually driven by competition, but sometimes it's potential competition or sometimes it's the economics only really work when you get to a certain amount of scale. So you still need to, to go to scale and get that early. So for example, how did PayPal get to a good fraud engine? 
It was like, well we had to get to scale of data within the system. And so blitzscaling was important there anyway, even though you didn't actually really understood the economics. 'cause the entire economic curve would change as you understood what your actual fraud cost is and how you can manage that. Because the unit economics per per per charge and then the speed, obviously competition, capital allocation, other kinds of things is a way of doing that. Now when you get to a, a large company, there's a couple different ways that a large company could think about actually Blitzscaling. Now one of 'em, the reason I open with culture is 'cause sometimes you say No, no, we're gonna change the way we're gonna operate and change this. That's also a blitzscaling phenomena. You have uncertainty. How well will the culture take Will, will we be able to do it? 
You need to do it fast because you need to get everyone rowing in the same direction. Like if, if some people are rowing kind of this way and other people are kind rowing this way, you have disharmony, it doesn't work. So speed also matters. And to some degree your question of efficiency is well the per dollar or per human unit, it just kind of doesn't matter. We just need to get there. Right? And so that was the reason the culture was one of the fascinating things. I think you've, that you're on path to no destination on path to another one, which we'll I'll ask you about in a moment is Azure, where, which is kind of this question where you say, well actually in fact this market we have to participate in, we are not there yet. We have to get there, we have to get to a certain scale and we have to be competitively, you know, in the fight, right? 
Given how far out a w s started, when you're really pushing forward to getting there. That's another, I think example of a large, an established company going, we need to play. Now in order for a company to do that, I think a couple things have to be true. A, a established company, a a significant size one is I think you have to be able to get sufficient backing from investors, right? I think that you need to have a kind of a, we buying into the future of what it is now, it can be a challenging way of doing that. So like for example, one of the, the little examples we used last week in media week, we said, well, so say you had a $20 billion public company and you had 17,000 employees, wouldn't you think Blitzscaling has passed you? Well this was Amazon in 2006 before a w s, right? 
And so it is actually there and matter of fact, and part of the reason we use this example, 'cause in media when Bezos started doing that, the response from the street was there was literally a magazine cover that said Bezos should just mind the store. Right? Right. So the response was not like, oh yes, that's great. We're all going for it. You need enough buy-in. Not enthusiasm necessarily, but okay, right. This seems to be, you know, you good leader, good shot, we may disagree with you, but we'll give you enough that you'll start proving it. And I think that's one of the other things that, that you've also brought to Microsoft in this, which is, oh, we believe now that Microsoft can invest in the future and we should be enabling Microsoft to invest in the future. 'cause we believe that future will play out well. 
So one is with the, with the, with kind of the, the street. Another one is you can't, unless you're in desperate straits, you know, apple, when jobs went back, you know this kind of thing. Usually you can't blitz scale the entire business, right? 'cause of the disruption. So usually it's a component. So even though for example, you know, Azure was one a group, a w s was a group, it wasn't, we're just doing every, we're just, you know, resetting the zero and then that means that the, that team needs the right backing from the c e o needs the right, you know, or you know, the kind of buy-in as the derivative down to the investor to say, we understand that a dollar here will have an uncertain dollar output. 'cause part of what happens in these traditional industries is they go, well this group goes, look, you gimme a dollar, I'm gonna give you a dollar 80 back. 
Right? Because we know it, we've got it, we're tuning it for efficiency, et cetera, et cetera. And then when you're giving the dollar to the Blitzscaling group, you're like, well when are your unit economics gonna work out? Well soon we have a spreadsheet. Right? And, and you have to have the credit for No, no, we're gonna build into that. And so I think that's some of the, the kind of traditional company. And so I think that, you know, in the kind of this, this exchange of questions, talk to me a little bit about how you made the Azure decisions and how that kind of worked through, 'cause that's kind of a another of example of the key kind of blitzscaling, you know, kind of groups within an established company. 

Satya Nadella: Yeah, I mean a lot of what you talk said is obviously you didn't have the, that vocabulary, but I always sort of say that I look long before it's conventional wisdom. You would've had to take that risk and you do it because of, you know, you described this, you need to have that courage to in some sense have the speed over efficiency with an uncertain future. And it comes because of the intuition you have of the arc of technology and the microeconomics that goes with it, right? That's where the founders, everyone here has that intuition and that's what gets you to even do the startup. And to us, you know, that's really what was the case, which is we understood, hey, where's distributed computing going, you know, we, we, you know, in all honesty, we started late and so therefore it was more about being able to, in that case be a fast follower. Yep. And then, but 

Reid Hoffman: You, but you also pared off your own area too, which is super interesting. The hybrid is something you should go into in Front

Satya Nadella: I'll come to that, yes. Because now interestingly enough, here we are now leading, it's kind of an interesting way, but the way in the beginning when we got started with Azure is, I mean we had like, you know, and I remember distinctly in 2011 joining the team that was our server team and we had an amazing business with amazing gross margins. And they would look at this, this cloud thing and say, God, this is a nightmare. And but yet it was clear as day that this, this nightmare could in fact finish us all off. And so we needed to just be all in. And it was unclear. In fact, if you think about right, right, the street can punish you, right? Which is once they, you know, have a set of metrics that they're tracking you on, you better be just on that treadmill. 
But the thing that I learned Reid was even with the street, the investors and of course investors is, I think Bezos says this, you get the investors you deserve, but even the investors, you can't go and ask for permission. But the only thing that they need is real conviction and real track, you know, progress quarter over quarter. So one of the things I did was to ensure that we had leading indicators of success. So I had to sort of basically get a set of metrics that were not, you know, net profit for sure that were not even gross margin, but were indicators of something that were going to be long-term gross margin or long-term net profit that the investor said, okay, as long as you walk the walk every quarter on this me set of metrics, I'll give you the leeway. So to some degree we went for scale over efficiency, especially measured by any of our traditional me metrics of efficiency, got permission from all. 
The other thing I realized was, again, this goes back to being Mayor Mortal, c e o, not a founder, right? I can't go in and say, hey trust me is to walk the walk. And I realized that if you can do that, even public markets can be a fantastic source of, you know, investment and Azure now to, you know, interestingly enough, it was maybe three years ago at our developer conferences when I first started talking about the edge, because I always knew distributed computing is it's not gonna be like the back to the mainframe. I mean we said distributed computing will be distributed forever. The question was what is the edge going to look like? And right now I feel we have, you know, if you think about what we are doing with Azure Sphere, which is basically a silicon design, an operating system and a cloud service for a microcontroller to have a compute node to Azure stack to Azure is one distributed computing plane for doing sort of the new workloads. This is not a hybrid for the old world. This is really the hybrid for the new AI first workloads because compute gravitates to where data is being generated. And that's what's driving a lot of our growth. I mean I look at even a, in a traditional company like Chevron or Shell, it's amazing the amount of compute power we're putting at the edge in the rigs, which is just part of the Azure fabric is a great sort of, it's, you know, a way of the view going forward. 

Reid Hoffman: Exactly. One of the other things that we didn't have a chance to talk about, so this is, this is, this is me asking this question. I did tell Satya, I'd asked him before I got on the stage, but me not having heard the answer, which is, you know, part of the, part of the reason we had Bill write the forward to Blitzscaling was we thought of Microsoft as like one of the actual early original Blitzscaling companies where it got this super compelling and powerful business model and then went to global scale. What was it like kind of being part of that company and then saying, okay, now we have to reset. 'cause I actually think most blitzscaling companies actually get to a point at some point where they need to reset. 'cause you need to start focusing on what we're gonna focus on efficiency, you know, too many of these kind of multi-thread experiments. And so there has to be kind of a, now we're gonna have much more of efficiency. What was that like both being in it as you kind of grew through the ranks and then as a kind of thinking about how is it that we reset our, our ability to earn our market rather than take it for granted? 

Satya Nadella: Yeah, I mean see the, I joined the company in 92 and we, you know, the mission of the company at that time was put a PC in every home, in every desk. You know, talk about a concrete mission, which even had the math formula right in there. Yeah. And, and, and then so by even the end of the decade, I would say at least in the developed world, we had scaled to achieve that. But I think one of the things that I've come to realize, you know, and, and it was amazing, like for example, when I joined the company, there was, there was no enterprise business. And the joke was that we'll never be an enterprise company. And, and here we are, whatever, 25 years later we are now the quote unquote the enterprise company. But it takes that long to build it out. And, but we had the inherent belief that whether it was our technology choices that we were making with it was on, on an operating system with the Intel architecture was going to go into the data center was fed or complete. 
I mean, in 92 you could just look at it and say it's going to happen. It may, you know, we all overestimated, you know how quickly it'll happen. But it happened eventually, you know, maybe five, 10 years after we originally thought it was, but it was sort of, it was locked in. The scale was locked in. The, the thing that I would say though I've learned is the biggest challenge comes at some point, anything that high has hyperscale will eventually taper off. And when it tapers off your ability to invent the next thing, if it was just a technical shift, you have much higher percentage chance of hitting that just because you'll have a big r and d budget, you would've spent, you would've covered your base. But if it's a business model shift, which is fundamentally destroying the margin that you sort of celebrated all these days, then it's a hard one. 
So for us, for example, the, the mobile thing was just difficult because it really changed in two ways. It became hardware, gross margin for Apple and it became services on the backend for Google. And here we were with an o e M based business model and that transition was the hardest for us, which is we needed to reinvent our business model. And that's where I would say we faulted. And whereas in the cloud we didn't, we sort of decided that we were not going to be beholden to the old business model. We were not only gonna change how we built products, but we were also gonna change the business model on around the products

Reid Hoffman: Yep. Makes total sense. I can ask you another question, although I'm c conscious that I'm cogging the questions 

Satya Nadella: No, yeah, I, I, let me flip it out and ask you the question. The one thing that, when I was reading a book, I was thinking, look, look, look at the number of challenges that we face as a society. In fact, interestingly enough, when, when you think about that speed versus efficiency, I run into this nowadays around communities, you know, I've gone back and studied a lot about the Xbox Live community and one of the reasons why that community has integrity around a lot of things is because I think we made some very good conscious decisions in retrospect, thank God we did that, to grow it with moderation really turned on in a big way early on. So I think about, you know, there are a lot of unintended consequences of scale, especially at a societal level. And it's not just tech. It can be a, you know, a program by the, you know, the federal government. How do you think we should think about scale versus efficiency when there are unintended consequences sometimes of scale? 

Reid Hoffman: So, so one of the things that we added in, and actually there's an essay which I'll come at the bottom, which will come back to the question which has actually been learning a bunch from you and Brad Smith about how tech companies can think about their, their position of responsibility within society. And there's, I I, what I realized after we wrote this chapter on responsible Blitzscaling was that there's another article that I should do. So I'll come and talk to you guys about that. We'll may do a little bit of it here too. But the basic thought was the challenge that these blitzscaling companies have, and I'll get to the society part of it is when you're small, it's fast and everything ma like, it's as fast as you can go. Like the thing that I learned from my first week as an as in the operational job at PayPal was every decision was made with the timeframe of you do not let up from a full depress of the acceleration battle, right? 
The amount of time you had to make the decision was, well, you know, you, you're going full force and make the decision by the time you get there, which may mean right now. And, and so you have this pro this challenge 'cause you have to move fast. Competition getting to scale. And you say, well, where does responsibility factor in? Where does this thinking about what your social impact is, what your risk factors, especially as you get to scale. And one of the things that is a kind of a goal in the, in the, in, in writing the Blitzscaling book was also not just to reflect what the Silicon Valley playbook is, but also try to, to help shape it in some paces. And one of the things we realized was if what you did is you plotted said, look, as I know, as I get my organization larger, as I know that I get to more multi-threaded, I can actually start investing in what my responsibilities are. 
'cause I can start thinking, okay, now we're bigger, we're doing more things and we're still really running to compete, but we should have somebody, some part of the group thinking about our responsibilities and what our, what our what our impacts could be. And the three areas that we said every blitzscaling company should think about, one is, well, do you have serious impact on individual customers? Right? And this is a little bit like the Theranos essay of saying, look, you like you blood test serious impact, right? No, you can't like fake it until you make it as an entrepreneur when it's blood tests, right? You know, not, you know, bad, right? It was thick. Second is, do you have a, a real impact? Maybe it's not as as mortal or as kind of threatening, but it's a serious impact and it's a large number of people. 
So if you kinda look at the integration across it, you say, well actually in fact we're affecting a whole bunch of people and so we should figure out before it happens, we should figure out what the possible antidotes are. And by the way, nothing can be perfect. But, but like for example, if if people were coming in and saying, you know, like, oh look, you've been hacked and you've lost the data and said look, we've had this whole effort going and we've had it going for years and we've been really trying to invest in it. Then it's like, okay, you still fucked up but you didn't fuck up quite as bad, right? Like it's kind of as an issue. So, so this one is another area and then the third one is systemic impact. Can you take the system down? Can you make payments stop working? 
Can you make, you know, that kind of thing. And in that area you should also say what are the areas where as we get to large, whereas we begin to get to the fact is we're no longer kind of the pirate ship, but we're actually the Navy in which everything runs. We're the infrastructure, what are the responsibilities for being infrastructure? And you should start thinking about it as you get to multi-threaded, like as you begin to get to what we call the village stage, which is hundreds of employees, you might say, well we got somebody, a person or two whose job that is and who's doing it. And then more as you go up. And that was part of the, part of the thought we had when we were doing this book is that not only is it to share to other places outside of Silicon Valley what we've learned from here and how to spread that but also help shape Silicon Valley. 
And one of the things that I, as I was, because we pushed our publisher a lot, I was literally putting in changes until like four months ago and the publisher was like, you're not allowed to do that. I'm like, eh, what's, what's the constraint? The constraint is, well it has to have the same number of words on every page. Okay, we can still make those changes, right? And so, and part of it was trying to get this stuff in and as I was doing that I realized that a bunch of the stuff like you know, Brad's Digital Con Geneva Convention and other things where since you guys have been there early and have been interfacing with what, what the right, kinda like how do you communicate, how do you help set an agenda? How do you go and say look actually in fact the whole like we're cri mission critical infrastructure don't regulate us, trust us is stupid. That's not the dialogue that's gonna work with society proactively saying, well here, here's the kind of things we should think about as a good regulatory framework. What have been, what would be the lessons that you'd say from a Microsoft perch saying to the up and coming blitzscaling companies, look, here is some of the things you guys should be thinking about. That's a great, in terms of contributing, 

Satya Nadella: I mean I've been thinking a a lot about it even in this context of scale. The overarching thing that I would say I've come to realize is day one, while you are building that product or service that obviously needs all the scale, you would be better served to construct even in its core business model and in the unit of scale, a way to deal with the unintended consequence. So the more you have thought through what are the unintended consequences that you will be unleashed when you are at scale day one. I mean, and I say that with all the respect to all of the things that are can't be forecast at all, right? So the uncertainty is real, but there are things that you could sort of say, wow. And that's what goes back to something like the Xbox Live because the decision those guys made at that time was to say, Hey, moderation is gonna be important. 
We want a safe community. And so in some sense this sacrificed a lot of efficiency. It is not like all this AI driven community, they just literally put a lot of humans and said we are going to day one have a lot of more moderation, which is human driven, which is super inefficient. But knowing because the unintended consequence of having a community that was not safe would be problematic. That's the way we are increasingly thinking about our stuff because, and somewhat some of it comes with our territory, right? We bought a recent company called Flipgrid, which is used in education for giving students and a voice and it's scaling, you know, in a, in a very big way. And the point though is we know now we've gotta take all the lessons learned, it has to be G D P R compliant. There are all of these things, the transactional costs of tech are not going down. 
They're gonna only go up if there's one secular thing that's gonna change change for all of us is that, you know, doing business worldwide is just gonna be more expensive. So that means there is an incentive for us. In fact there's a competitive advantage for everyone in the room here to actually outthink your competition on dealing with unintended consequences. So that's kind of how I think about it. And no, the terms of competition no longer are do you scale, do you scale safely will be the only thing that may matter. And so that's at least how I'm thinking about it

Reid Hoffman: Yeah, a hundred percent. And also I think part of what I've seen you guys do, which you know probably sit down and interview Brad and you and maybe a few other folks has been this, look, there's a way to propose a lightweight set of kind of regulatory frameworks that enhance trust, still create the maneuverability for innovation and, and aren't trying to just do what people classically think of companies and like the digital Geneva conventions perfectly. It's not trying to disbalance the fa the field in favor of one company. 

Satya Nadella: And that's a very good point. 

Reid Hoffman: Yeah. He's trying to just say, let's make it good for all of us

Satya Nadella: And that probably is one thing I would say is when I compare Silicon Valley and the maturity of, I'll call it the players in Silicon Valley versus other industries, we have still some ways to go because where we think of as our terms of competition versus what is the thing at stake for the industry, we're just so lopsided. We don't get that, hey, if we don't in fact self-regulate, we will be regulated. For example, one of the considerations take all of this AI on the facial recognition issue. The reality is when we look at it, the maturity, you remember the Gartner guys and others would always have these maturity models. That's kind of how enterprise adoption would go. But we don't, in scale we don't apply that, right? We just take some model that's just half bake and say it's ready for scale, you know, damn the unintended consequences. This 

Reid Hoffman: Is blitzscaling by the way to some degree.

Satya Nadella: Yes. But The problem with that when you know it's if you did it yes and instead oh it is an unknown, that's a, that's blitzscaling. Yes this is, it's completely known. 

Reid Hoffman: But when you know it, you should do something. Yes. That 

Satya Nadella: Is not good scaling. Yes. And so that's sort of, to me the challenge sometimes we run into, especially for a large company to do that, that's unforgivable. So the point is for us to be able to sort of, that's where the Geneva Convention comes in. If you think about, you know, it's fun, it's amazing cyber, we know it economically impacts basically citizens and consumers world over and small businesses because large businesses can spend the money tech companies are more competent in dealing with their own network vulnerabilities and what have you. So therefore that is where that Geneva convention came in. And I think a lot more cooperation industry led initiatives, I think would be important. And regulation is inevitable. You might as well engage on the policy to make sure that the regulation is smart. 

Reid Hoffman: Yes. Has the right shape and is adaptive over time. 'cause people say, whoa, whoa, it's, everything's gonna change. You're like fine start very light. Start with like 

Satya Nadella: And that by the is the Chinese model from what I can observe. Yes. Is they definitely seem to be, it's not like in China when there's a lot of talk and o Kai Fus written a recent book. It's not as if China is open season in terms of data. They are building their own set of regulations that is more along your lines, which is in some sense the state policy there seems to also understand blitzscaling their policy. 

Reid Hoffman: Yes. Well this is the thing I was just about to also go to, which is there, most of the time when you get within a social context, you say, okay, not companies but society, what should, when should society be thinking of upward scaling? And the, and the, and the challenge is, one of the great goods you want generally in society is predictability and reliability. And so generally speaking, you want to only move into areas of uncertainty when it's really important. It's being driven by some factor. And you know, the most obvious visceral one is war is like, okay, we just have to do all this 'cause it's, it's desperate. But you know, for example, big transitions which can be the, okay, well actually in fact we have all of this kind of industry transformation and we have all these issues around, you know, kind of middle class jobs or opioid academics and so forth. 
And that's when you might start saying, well actually in fact the speed at dealing with this problem, 'cause it's a systemic problem, we just need to understand that we're gonna take inefficient shots on goal. Right? And and and part of it, and, and this is one of the things that I actually only really just started having this particular thought as I was answering the questions on the media tour last week, which is part of that I think also needs to learn. One of the things that we didn't cover quite as much in the book is experimentalism, right? So like part of when you can think of inefficiency, you say, well we take 10 shots, like we we're gonna try this one, we're gonna try this one, we're gonna try this one, we're gonna try this one. And we're gonna look at all of 'em to say, okay, this part of this is working, this is working, okay, let's, let's triple down on those and move the other ones out. 
And government's usually pretty bad at doing that. So we need to figure out how to, how to do that. Now part of, for example, you the Chinese actually I think do this in, in some good ways, which is I'd been thinking about how would be, what would be the US examples of the Chinese special economic zones. Like what would you do if you say, well we need to run some experiments on how this stuff's gonna work. Well could we say, look, there are certain areas that are in somewhat economic disrepair, we just need to be juicing them, whether it's Detroit, new Orleans and say, okay, let's try to get this back, let's make this a special economic zone and let's work in the following ways. And what I'd realized is an essay that I had written and published three or four years ago, which was around special economic zones saying, look, what you should do is you should allow unlimited immigration, immigration here with, you know, certain safety checks and everything else with jobs. 
If you're investing in this community, if you're getting the economy of the city region going back to going as a, as a way of doing it, you could do it through, for example, a payroll tax. So you have to say, we're paying us rates, it's competitive US rates and we're paying, we're actually even paying more in order to do this. And I think those are things that we need to start thinking about how do we add to the societal corpus, right? And I think the Chinese, the, the Singapore model, I think those offer some of the tool set that maybe we could figure out our version and apply them and maybe the right first one is like special economic zones. No, that's surprising. And using testing

Satya Nadella: Lemme ask you one other thing. In your book, I know you sort of explore case studies outta both Silicon Valley and China. What, what would you characterize as the core difference in the Blitzscaling attributes between Silicon Valley and China? 

Reid Hoffman: So China has some advantages that it's deploying very well. So one is raw scale of employees. So for example, when Tencent said, okay, here comes mobile and we have this QQ that we're making all this money on from the SS m s fees and so forth. So classic like business model kind of disruption possibility. They literally started multiple groups in multiple cities and said, all of you have the mandate and you're competing with each other. Right? This is kind of strange from an American corporate perspective, which is, well I got these three different groups and they're all competing with each other so well, which whichever it's like a, you know, battle royal survivor game. Well whichever you make it out right, of this mud pit. You, 

Satya Nadella: By the way, Microsoft, when I joined in 92, we had that had, oh really? We had, we had OSS two windows, NT and windows all three. And I distinctly remember, yes. In fact the first meeting I went to was Steve Bomber, it's OS two, OS two OSS two the next month he said it's windows, windows, windows. And it sort of, it was blitzscaling. 

Reid Hoffman: Oh, interesting. Okay. That's another conversation we'll have always two. Yes. Yes. Oss two, some people probably still remember what that was. And, and so one part of it is the, is the pure talent, amount of talent. So like number of groups competing, et cetera. Another one which I actually learned from, got a real up and close and personal with LinkedIn China because in, in the, so we one ways we were navigating China, which you still have, which as you know, which is this Chinese only project product called CHI two. 'cause it was one of the ways that we thought we would also show that we're investing in China, that we're actually experimenting with things that were local to the market in addition to kind of the global LinkedIn network as a ways of kind of running a dual process. And so I was sitting down with a team and they showed me a set of wire frames about what they were gonna build and they said, we're gonna have this done in eight weeks. 
And I was like, you know, I've done this investing game a little bit. I was like, no, there's no chance you're gonna do this in eight weeks. Like, I've seen so many companies here in Silicon Valley, Silicon Valley moves faa. I'm like, no, no, no, you don't have to over promise. Like, just tell me when he's like, no, we're gonna have this done in eight weeks. He's like, look, it'll be really helpful for the KE team if you come back in a month and you visit us so that we can ask you questions and a morale and so forth. And I said, okay, fine, I'll, I'll change my calendar around, I'll be back in a month. And I got back in a month. And what the team had done is they'd taken all the product team, all the engineering team and all the design team, and they had checked them into a hotel two weeks on, two days off, two weeks on, days off. 

Satya Nadella: It's like Bill would say he was to watch the number plates of the people Yes. When they came in and when they left. Yes. That was his scale, unit of scale. 

Reid Hoffman: Yes. Yes, exactly. And our, well it was his version of what Lejeune calls 9, 9 6 9:00 AM to to 9:00 PM six days a week, you're discoverable at your desk. That was when Zami was 30,000 people. Right. To give you a sense of how it operates. So that's, 

Satya Nadella: He doesn't believe that you can go into the house and check in. 

Reid Hoffman: No, no. It's, it's discoverable at your desk. At desk. Right. And, and by the way, cha Chow is is doing that as well now, but it's 10 10, it's 10:00 AM to 10:00 PM six days a week. Right. At whatever, 40,000 people or whatever number of people they have. And so and so anyway, so the LinkedIn example, I went back in four weeks and because he didn't tell me he was gonna do at this point, 'cause I might've believed him, I was literally like, oh my God, you're halfway there. Well, yeah, you're gonna be there in eight weeks. And it was because of this intensity of literally when they were at the hotel, it was breaks, 30 minute breaks for meals, you know, 15 minute breaks for like a little walk a smoke, et cetera, et cetera. And then work. Right. You know, and, and, and for sleep. And this was a, you know, the, the, the, the LinkedIn JV in China, not, not only just the, the kind of raw others. So that's another thing that the, that the, the China folks do. And then the other thing that they're actually doing, which we kind of Silicon Valley, just so that I 

Satya Nadella: Know what you just said, Reid, you basically said We are lazy. 

Reid Hoffman: Yes, yes. Well, compared to the Chinese. Yes. Right. And, and part of that I think culturally that most of the folks who are around our age, a little older, remember the cultural revolution and remember the starvation that came from it. So that's literally the definition of hunger, right? They're like, this is our golden ticket, we're going for it. And, and, and that's important to realize. And so when you, part of the whole point of, of riding Blitzscaling is we don't advocate that us or European, other companies can necessarily do the European model. I it's possible at the village stage, maybe certainly the tribe, certainly the family stage, but it's not as you get to city and, and, and, and nation, which, which it is there. And so there's a stack of those things. Now what they, what they are further behind on the curve of is we've been refining management, we've been refining how do you manage efficiently? 
How do you do these things including in Blitzscaling? Yeah. So it's kind of the compare and contrast and the, and the lesson usually in Blitzscaling is play to your strengths, right? Like yes, lightly try to correct your weaknesses, but don't try to, like, if you say, great, this is where you're strong, we're gonna play the game on your terms bad. Now the last thing I'd say is part of the thing that in case anyone, I don't think anyone here would've this illusion, oh, the Chinese copy, et cetera, et cetera. Oh, they're inventing all over the place, right? This is, this is, this is a, like I get this question from Washington all the time. It's like, well they're just copying our things. Like no, no, no, no. Like I pay attention. And one of the things that, that, that is actually the whole digital goods market, the business model of digital good that's coming out, that's a, that's a Chinese, like that came out of the, out of the, the, the WeChat, the Y Shing environment. 
And that's coming back. And that's something that we're starting to learn as, as an interesting business model. 'cause which of the business models that scale are actually, it's, it's a fundamental part of the, kind of, the Blitzscaling is saying, these ones work, these ones don't work as well. Now just so that people realize it's not just a tech thing. I'm gonna actually go to another kind of Blitzscaling thing, which is, there's a company that some of you may be familiar with called Zara. And Zara is fast fashion, it's a fashion manufacturing and it's not manufacturing in China for low cost, it's manufacturing in Spain. But the, what they did is they said, let's close the loop, let's make it really fast. We will use our stores and our salespeople as, as immediate intel. And that intel will go back to the designers and go back to the, the, the robotics. 
There is some robotics in the factories, but not only robotics and to, to produce and ship new clothes to the stores such that it's a two week turnaround, right? That's a way that you say, look, I, we now need to work in a world of data, in a world of learning, in a world of, of faster clock and faster acceleration in session is the way of doing that. So, so it's totally doable across, across the spectrum, across the industries. And so now it may be that we do it more within our pure tech companies 'cause you know, we have maybe margins, we have a better understanding of tech, we have a better understanding of of how do you build products on data? How do you use data in competitive intel? But just as software is transforming the world, it's essentially going right the whole area. And so that's part of the example that we use in the book as it's not just us. 

Satya Nadella: No, that's a great one. That's a great one. I mean, I, I mean I think that that's the, one of the fun things for me is to see, you know, today pretty much every company out there is becoming a digital company. One of the foundational challenges is as much culture, it's as much understanding the physics of digital network effects changing in some sense. All these other industries. And you sort of run into this, which is structurally sometimes companies are organized for a very different factor of production, but now you have a new factor of production and you need to reorient. And, and right there lies, it's not as much in fact they're willing to change their business model, they're willing to change their product, but it's that structural change that allows them to get to those network effects. That's sort of the real either accelerator or impediment. 

Reid Hoffman: And since we have a bunch of geeks here, I'm gonna ask what is hopefully a quick geeky question just for fun. And then we're gonna open it up to questions from you guys. Quantum computing, something I still haven't quite gotten my brain around, right? You've been focusing on this more. What do you think the way that people should pay attention to Quantum is, and what do you think the potential is there? So the way 

Satya Nadella: We got started on this was there was a C T O at Microsoft called Craig Mundy, who still, in fact, very much associated with us, who multiple years ago, got this program started at Microsoft. The intuition for it, or the motivation for it, quite frankly, is a lot more easy to get today than when we got even started. Because if you're spending 10 plus billion dollars a year of capital on essentially building compute, you are going to be very sensitive to what comes next in terms of compute power. And, and, and there are all these computational problems, whether it's that enzyme in food production or the catalyst that's going to have to absorb all the carbon when we are looking for the miracle around climate change, which are still computational problems that can't be solved by classical computers. So the intuition for why, or the motivation for why we need quantum is right there. 
The approach we took is controversial because what we, we sort of said he's, look, it's not even about achieving that quantum supremacy as a milestone. Because if you just did that when it was not a general purpose quantum computer, you wouldn't have really achieved say what the PC represented or the mobile phone represented as sort of a democratization and the birth of a complete new era of computing. And so we are going for it, which is we are going for building the general purpose quantum computer. And the challenge of course is how do you stabilize these qubits? So there's this guy who is a fields metal winner who works at Microsoft. He came up with this concept of a topological property. That's a way to stabilize these qubits. So we've bet on that. Now the challenge, of course is to go find the physical instantiation of topological matter. 
And somewhere in the 1940s or 1930s, I think a paper was written by a theoretical physicist that there are these particles called MI particles that'll exhibit these topological properties. Lo and behold, we have these world class physicists who someday will win a Nobel Prize because we are, you know, close to stabilizing those particles. So essentially it's math instantiated in some physical properties that we discover. And then of course you gotta build an entire computing stack and there's all sorts of sophisticated things. What's the controller to the quantum computer? So we are in it, we are spending a lot of money. You and the board approve it. Yes. And, 

Reid Hoffman: And by the way, it's still mind bending. 

Satya Nadella: And, and, and the pro, the nice thing is, this goes back a little bit to the blitzscaling thing, is one of the other, at least terminology we use is what we call no regrets move, right? Even let's say a lot of these things take a lot longer than what we have envisioned. Are there byproducts of what we are doing that can in fact be monetized used in other contexts? A great example of it is we now have the quantum simulator on Azure and the quantum simulator on Azure. I thought, who will it be? Maybe some students. It turns out though, there are a lot of people who are in fact, at scale consuming a lot of compute cycles because they want to get ahead on the quantum algorithms. And one example of that was a couple of researchers out of, I think Case Western or Cleveland Clinic who had an an, an algorithm for fast lookup on MRIs to do tissue matching basically. So you can even discover a tumor while you are doing your first M r I. And, but they couldn't solve it using a classical computer. So they're doing the simulation on Azure. So we are finding, of course, the Azure simulator is one, but there are, as you can imagine, other things that you do in order to build a quantum computer that are massively, you know, advantages for anyone who the is in the cloud business. 

Reid Hoffman: Cool. Questions 


Guest Question: I I just, when when you're doing blitz scaling or you're doing what you did at Microsoft, you know the, the C e O recommends the strategy, but the board approves it. And you know, the board is a collection of people. A lot of them didn't necessarily grow up in a digital age. A lot of them are used to looking at backward looking metrics and efficiency. So how, how do you get a board of directors to be in the right place to sort of make the right decisions around strategies like Blitzscaling and when, when to do it and when not? 

Satya Nadella: It's, yeah, I can start. I mean it's, it's, it's, it's a, you know, something that I've, I would say grown to recognize as one of the foundational jobs of A C E O quite frankly, growing up, even one level removed from A C E O all these years, unlike many of you who are entrepreneurs who deal with boards and investors all the time, I didn't have that skillset and I realized how important it is when you, especially as you said, not everybody on the board is Reid Hoffman or Bill Gates. So we, we have, I think, you know what a board size of on 13 with lots of different ba you know, depth in different areas. And the one thing that I realized though is what the board is trying to do is pass judgment on your judgment. When we say it's not as much, it's kind of that derivative you've gotta get, right? 
Because if you think that your job is to explain to the board in full detail the quantum computing, like what, what causes you to make that judgment? That's gonna be hard. It's gonna be hard and it's sort of unreasonable even. So therefore, one of the things that at least I've realized is what's the framework for them to evaluate me and my management team on the judgment we are passing. And there, quite honestly, this is where being transparent, being super intellectually honest is the most helpful thing in high risk businesses like ours where there is so much beta. And when you take a high beta thing and describe it like a sure shot is when you can absolutely lose all credibility. So those are some of the things that I would say at least I've learned. And the most important thing is that don't think that they're passing judgment on the strategy. They're passing judgment on your judgment of strategy. 

Reid Hoffman: Yeah. And, and, and what Saja said is exactly right. Two other techniques. One is a board has a number of people you feel we need to move in this direction, add someone who's the catalyst to the board, have that be an explicit conversation with them about, look, I think this needs to be going this way. Do you buy in, in which case, as opposed to, 'cause 'cause classically the board's saying saying, okay, is the management doing the right thing? Do they have the right capability of the future? This is the, the, the, the, the second derivative of judgment that Satya is talking about. But it's like, okay, here's someone who is also saying, look, we need to be going here, we need to be understanding that and so forth. So, so think of it as a team and then in some cases, I think one of the things that's very useful to do, and this is, this is a kind of, it isn't a kind of the full stop everything else, but to really invest in some board education, you go this key thing, this battlefield, this product, this piece of technology, they need to understand, they're not digital natives, it's fine. 
They need to understand this and say, look, in order to do this, you guys need to come, we need to set up a one day, two day training thing and you need to come for it, right? In order to do it. And, and that's a big cost and a big play, but sometimes that's the only thing that actually work, 

Guest Question: First of all, I want to thank you for coming. This has been fantastic and in the blitzscaling context, I think context is really important as far as racing and, and and uncertainty to, to the where you wanna be. We've all seen how Facebook has been in the news with data and some of the challenges around privacy that they've had. And Microsoft, you know, I think by and large has been perceived along with Apple and some others of really taking a, a kind of a more measured approach to this. But arguably with the, all the data that Windows collects with the social graph of GitHub and, and LinkedIn and some other stuff, you have a lot of data of not just, you know, my cat preferences and crazy stuff like that, but like real stuff about real companies that matter. And if you really take that to the extreme, like say NATO or something like that, that's using your products and as you're applying AI to this and you're racing to this in this competitive environment to the future, what are, what is your responsibility as far as privacy and AI and, and all these issues? 

Satya Nadella: It's A great set of questions and this is one of those places where I think we are really confronted with scaling while at the same time in that unit of scale, building in right in the core the ability to deal with any unintended consequence. So let's take, first I'll just say the largest part, part of our business is foundationally around MA helping our customers, whether it's individual consumers or large organizations manage their own data. So when somebody moves to Microsoft 3 6 5 or oh 3 6 5, we don't start by saying this is our data, it's their data. So a tenancy is a massive software construct for us and for most part it's the tenant's data and what is it that we need to do to help them get benefits from their own data. So think of it that way. And our business model helps when you have primarily a software sort of slash subscription or a consumption based business model, you sort of are incented to do so. 
So that's, and this is not about saying ads are bad or not, I mean I'm, you know, it's sort of, I'm just saying that large part of what we do is foundationally about making sure that customers are dealing with data on their own terms. Now having said that, there are three major areas that we are absolutely at work and in all of these areas we have to do a bunch of work. I believe the industry has to do a bunch of work and then there will be governments involved as well. So one is on privacy. I think the front, front, the way at least I approach privacy at this point is assume that this is a basic human right and that it's going to be a, an expectation of every customer in every context. That there's gonna be full transparency and that they will be able to control what data is being collected and what is being used for. 
So GDPR is the beginning of that. So in some sense now you even have regulation that you actually have to be compliant with. And we for example, took the data rights of G D P R and made it globally available across Microsoft. So we are not even saying because I think it's good for in fact the world to not have transactional costs where we fragment on privacy regulation. In fact, if anything I'm hopeful even in the United States, I know California passed a law, which is great except we want it as a federal law. And the more we harmonize I think privacy laws, I think we'll be better off. And another area in privacy is Cloud Act. I think, I don't know how much you all track Cloud Act. We remember we went and took the United Government of the United States to the Supreme Court twice because of the balance between privacy and public safety. 
We realize that there's a balance that's required, but it needs to be done within a framework of law. And the cloud act is very helpful in that. So we finally have a piece of legislation which the US thank God is leading what now what we need is the United States to do bilateral agreements between the US and the UK and the rest of the European Union so that we can start establishing a real quorum and an equilibrium around this very important issue of privacy and public safety. A second area is around cyber. And in fact, you know, we referenced this, there's a lot one needs to do around cybersecurity. We ourselves are converting our own operational security, all the signal and all the data that we have, whether it's the login data, the security events, the machines we scan or what have you, all that, how do we convert it into better security products for our customers, right? 
That's small business that's being attacked or the in the account guard is a new product we launched, which is a very good example of that, which is email safety. And this is all about converting our operational security posture into better email safety around say STR attacking you or what have you. And this is what happened with a couple of senators and that's how we got to this product. Now the last point I would say is, oh, and that's where the dig the Digital Geneva Convention comes in, right? So what we do is good, but we as a tech industry need to come together and this tech accord a lot of use support it. And a lot of businesses, I mean a lot of tech companies support. It is fantastic. This is us taking the pledge that we will use all of our technology to protect the most vulnerable, which is the individual users in countries and small businesses. 
That's a great step. We need to now even go to the other forums where I think nation states also sign up for that pledge. And then the last one is on AI and ethics and the idea that you should have a set of principles that are even design principles and we've even thought about, talked about it, lies as what is the, the moral equal of the Hippocratic oath that we as creators of AI can take in order to create AI that one empowers humans, also protects against bias. So that we need to start with a set of principles, but also be open to read's earlier point that when sort of there's a technology which is gonna have real consequences, let's take like facial recognition. There's, having regulation is not a bad thing. In fact, if anything it'll in fact increase the adoption of technology knowing that there's trust in it. And so that's how we are approaching at least our work across privacy, security and ethics around ai. 

Reid Hoffman: So we promised Satya that he would actually be able to make his plane, which means that we, 
Then we'll, okay, fine. It's your plane. Drew, last question. So 

Guest Question: You became CEO of a company massive scale. You mentioned growth or or Carol DE's book as a favorite. You know, all the books are, I'm sure you talked to a bunch of people, but read a lot of books. Any parting book recommendations that have stepped other 
Than blood scale? Other, 

Satya Nadella: You're gonna get me into trouble? You was going to give me that book. 
The, the, the other book that I read and it's kind of a, a, an interesting one and, and the reason I think a lot about Drew the benefits, if you think about the foundational challenge we all have like the, the thing we should start is we all won the lottery, right? Here we are because we work in this industry at a time when this industry and this technology is shaping everything and everybody, and when I came to the United States in 1988 from India, one of the things that struck me was this country is magical in terms of its, I'll call it egalitarian egalitarianism. And in fact, I'd never seen such a large scale population of middle class Americans and the prosperity that was so broad spread, it was just stunning to me. It was then can, it was kinda like a science fiction place. And in fact Angus Deacon has this beautiful phrase he uses, which he says the United States is the only country ever in our history to have that blue collar aristocracy. 
And that's what's lost today. And so there's this book I read recently called Squeezed, I forget the name of the author. It was for me as someone who's grown up here to really get a better microeconomic understanding how precarious middle class jobs are, middle class lives are, and these costs like healthcare, education, childcare, which all by the way, really technology can help. I mean the healthcare cost somebody described it's not a miracle drug, it's all workflow. And so in some sense that grounding, there are so many problems to be solved. So many costs that can be tamed using digital technology. This book and there are many, many I can go on, but it, it helped me get a better life. And one of the things I'm doing a lot more is reading individual lives to be a lot more in touch with what are the real challenges. And this was one of those very well-written books, which was helpful for me. 

Reid Hoffman: The other thing I'd add in case some folks haven't encountered it yet is anti-fragile by tale is highly worth reading. Yeah. So with that, alright, thanks Satya for coming down. Thank you So much.
