This is a transcript of a lecture by Chris Yeh, titled "Growth Enhancer 2: Distribution Virality"

Chris Yeh:The other critical growth factor in Blitzscaling is scalable distribution. You need the ability to grow. If the goal of blitzscaling is to achieve market leadership in a winner take most market, then distribution determines how quickly you can get to that market leadership and achieve critical scale, and how many resources it's going to take. That obviously is going to have a huge impact on the value of your company as an investment and the value of the company as a company that you are starting. When we think about distribution, there are two key ways to achieve great distribution. The first is through virality. Virality means that people who are using your product tend to bring in more users. When you have a viral coefficient of greater than one, you can have exponential growth because each person brings in more than one user. Each of those more than one user brings in more than one user, and you get a compounding effect. 
This has been seen in companies like Hotmail, which was one of the original viral marketing companies. Now, viral marketing and viral growth comes in two flavors. One is organic, where it's based on just the natural usage of the product itself. Think about Hotmail where every message contained a message saying You can get your own free email@hotmail.com. But the other is to use incentivized virality. And this occurs in cases like Dropbox, where each additional person that you refer to Dropbox increases the amount of storage that you get for free. When you have something like Dropbox, you actually combine organic virality, i e, your sharing files, and that tends to bring in more users and incentivized virality for even better distribution. The other form of distribution that's very important is tapping into existing distribution channels and networks. The way you do this is by creating a reason for those distribution channels or networks to promote you. 
It's not enough to give them a share of revenues. That share of revenues is generally going to be a minor portion of what they get out of driving their main channel. So what you have to do is you have to demonstrate that your product actually improves their ability to generate revenues. It is also the case that sometimes you can find clever ways to actually tap into a network. So for example, if we think about WhatsApp, WhatsApp was able to sit on top of an existing network that people didn't realize existed the telephone numbers in your phone's address book. Because that was not owned by a specific company, it was possible for WhatsApp to tap into that existing distribution network without having to pay anyone else. One of the many reasons why they were able to grow so quickly and ultimately sell for over $22 billion.
