This is a lecture given by Hiten Shah titled "The Art of Pivoting Towards Product Market Fit at Lean Product Meetup"




Host Introduction: Let's get to the reason we're all here tonight. I'm super excited to have my friend Heaton Shaw here for the third time. I'm sure most of you have already heard of him, are familiar with his career. You know, he started, he's a serial entrepreneur, an investor, and he started two companies. You've probably heard a lot about Crazy Egg and Kiss metrics. His current company is Neira. I'm guessing he might be telling us a little about that in this talk today. Hopefully he's a lean startup expert. He is definitely also become a product thought leader. He, in fact, has a, a great website, product habits.com, where he shares advice and blogs. And again, you can find him on Twitter at HN Shaw. And he is gonna be sharing with his advice on the art of pivoting towards product market fit. So with that, let me turn it over to Heden and let him share his screen. Welcome. Thanks 

Hiten Shah: Dan. What a great intro. Always nice to be here. This is the third time, last two times where I think in person. Yes, which is always, it's just always a blast. So I wanted to say one thing before I got started. Besides thanks for being here, everybody, let's make this fun. I'm, my number one goal in life these days is just have fun. So I'm, I'm at that point. At this point, you'll see why when I start talking about kind of my business in Neera, as you said, Dan. So I'm here 'cause of product market fit. So this little jra thing, I don't know, it's like 150 bucks on Amazon, but I got it for like half price or something. It's amazing and you can hear me because of it. And I don't have to have this big old mic here. And it's about 80, 90% as good as one of those, which I do have, but I hate using. 

But my buddy Patrick, we have, we do a podcast together and he sent me the mic. And so if I do the podcast with him without the mic, I'm pretty sure he is gonna be pissed off. So I don't do that. But anyway, this was the reason that it is a product market fit. Literally, I was not gonna get on this thing unless I could use this mic. So, and it's not like I touch it or anything, I just think it's better than any other way I can do this and still feel really great about talking. So anyway, it wasn't working and I had to make it work. What I'm here to talk about is pivoting towards product market fit. I haven't done a talk like this before where I dive really deep into something that I've been doing based on some of the things that I've been even sharing out there. 

So you'll see a lot of tweets in here. Hopefully you don't get tired of my face. Not this one with the hair, but the one you'll see in the, in the tweets, that's usually on social media. I am gonna cut my hair at some point. All right, so I'm gonna jump right in. Again, if you have anything to say in the chat, please do. I know Dan's got the tweet things going, maybe I'll say something interesting. You wanna tweet it out? Go for it. So one thing I realized, and again, ignore the dates in here, although there's some interesting things when you start thinking about these dates and try to make some connections. But I tweeted this and what I realized is I literally woke up probably that morning and was thinking about the fact that what's the pattern in my life and in my life, the pattern is that when I build businesses, not just products, any kind of business, I've built a few different kinds, but basically I haven't seen a lot of people get to product market fit more than once. 

Some people may be twice. What I've realized is based on my experience now with Neera, I'm in that three time journey of getting to product market fit and I'm sure of it. So it's just something that I thought through. 'cause I was like, who can I talk to about this? And there are very few people I can name and say, Hey, I can talk to you about this and maybe you'll understand some of the random things in my head from having done this three times and trying to find the patterns. Because I think, I think, you know, the, the, the way I would kind of go deeper and say it is this, I think product market fit is everything. I think it's just absolutely everything. It doesn't matter what size company you are, it doesn't matter what type of business you are. I have so many stories of companies, even little coffee shops that have gotten product market fit and it's everything to them. And, and, and what I mean by that is oftentimes that first time that, you know, you hit it with your business or the metrics, show it, what what have you, and I'll, I'll dive more, much more into that. 

You, you, you kind of like, like everything that you do after that has a lot to do with that fit that you found in the first place. The way the team thinks about certain things. All those things are kind of at the kernel is all the things that got you to product market fit, all the lessons you, you basically learned along the way. That's why I just, I'm, I'm just gonna say it, it's everything. So I, I tweeted this, I'll let you take a couple seconds to read it and I'll read it again. And there's a lot of these tweets, but I figured I could tell my story through tweets today and a few emails and whatnot. So I I I've been around building products since for like the last 18 years and I think Dan, you might date me a little bit on that. Longer than 18. 

Yeah, little bit is alright, we'll see. We'll see. I gotta, yeah, when you're, when you're old enough to you can't figure it out then yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. A little bit. 

Just check. Alright, so he he's he's like grandpa or great uncle or something like that. So, but, but what I was gonna say about this is basically I've seen a lot of concepts, even lean startup as a concept itself is now misunderstood. And thanks to folks like Dan, it, it is becoming clear and has been clear from the books that he's written and, and a bunch of other folks that have written. So the way I think about it is, let's, let's explain these two topics that I'm talking about. Product market fit and pivots. And I'm putting those together 'cause I think they're very interconnected and related and almost the same thing. I know that might sound a little weird, but I'll get there. So what it means to have product market fit according to market Dreesen from Andreessen Horowitz and, and, and kind of, I mean, you know, Netscape and, and the web and all kinds of things are here 'cause of him. 

So I think he might know a thing or two about, about this product market fit thing. Basically he puts it really simply and I think people try to overcomplicate it. So he just says it's about being in a good market with a product that can satisfy that market. So all you're really trying to figure out with whether you have it or not is, is your product satisfying the market? That's it. It it's actually that basic and there's a lot of measures for it and stuff like that. I will get into those, but I just wanted to define it in this way. Again, anyone wants to challenge me, anyone wants to ask me questions about any of this stuff. I'm a complete open book and can give you as many examples as I can about any of the things that I've noticed about any of this. 

So get them ready, super happy to dive in. So this is something I tweeted to and, and I truly, truly, truly, truly believe this. Now if you're trying to get to product market fit, especially for the first time you have limited resources, limited time of some kind, any kind. I've never found someone who really, truly doesn't have limited time when it comes to like, when they first start and try to get to product market fit, then there's subsequent product market fit journeys after that which are, are also relevant. So this does apply even at scale and a lot of times at scale you're trying to do new initiatives that are completely different brands and things like that. So you're kind of reinventing the wheel again of getting to product market fit and all that stuff. So basically there's a lot of advice. I mean, at least Dan's book is about getting the product market fit. 

So I'm not gonna knock anything in there at all. And so that's not what this is intended to do, but like what I've noticed is like when I try to put too many frameworks too, too much operationalization on too many things, I really screw myself up in the early days and, and it's 'cause I get stuck on a framework or somebody on the team wants to use some random tool, all that. And no offense to product board or anything, but at, at a certain size you need it before that you actually don't need things like that. You have enough tools between notion and Trello and all these things. It's when those things break that you should be thinking of bigger, bigger, bigger tools. So anyway, I think that like a lot of what I say, it doesn't apply a little bit post product market fit. 

I am gonna give some thoughts about that and some impressive things I've seen. So this is the real reason I'm here because I've been in a lot of meetings like this. I do love some of the, about two or three of these slides that I like to kinda share a lot 'cause like they help me. So this one in particular is all about these meetings you get into and nobody knows why these things happened. And that's why I love this idea of pivots and and I also love the idea of product market fit. It it, it's like you're trying to quantify things that are extremely, extremely, extremely hard to quantify. And you, you, you don't want to end up in this position where you weren't able to quantify them. So there's a lot of people that will overdo a bunch of things. So the idea of what I'm gonna share is all about focus and all about what you should be focused on. So first let's define, define a pivot. Now that we're past the product market fit and kind of hopefully we're all aligned on like what that means. 

Pivots are when you're making a critical change to your business rooted in customer learnings. I can't stress that enough. I I kind of have a cute name for what a pivot isn't in a little bit. But at the end of the day it's rooted in learnings. That's a key part here and it's customer learnings. And so based on Eric Reese's original definition of, of a pivot, these are basically the three types that you can make. There are a few other types too, but like these, these core three are kind of how it works, so to speak. If you want to make it official and have a framework for thinking about a pivot and use the terminology, you should definitely explain it well and have a common language for it. So there's a product pivot and that's when you take a piece of your product and you basically realize maybe it's stickier than any other piece of your product as an example. 

And you basically put all your resources towards that. You might ideally even kill the rest of the feature set and you double down on that. And that's kind of a narrowing in on the product, a zooming in if you wanna call it. And then there's like a customer pivot. So here it's like an example is like when there's a new segment of customers they're willing to make, pay more for your product than the current segment. And obviously they're gonna have different needs and things like that over time. But you pivot into that. So that's when maybe you're targeting small, medium businesses with your tool and you realize that freelancers are actually getting a ton of value from it and you think that's a lucrative market. You would pivot your whole kind of customer narrative, your, your I C P, your ideal customer profile, all those good things into this kind of category of customers, which would be like freelancers in that case for that example. 

And then a problem PI pivot. And that's kind of as you're talking to people, you discover that there are bigger problems then the ones that you're actually trying to solve originally. And that's when you're basically pivoting the problem. But it's all off of a customer discovery. You either built something, you did a lot of customer development interviews, you've been in market somehow as I would call it. And what I mean by in market is you're talking to the market, you're talking to people in a market. And so this is the way I think about pivots and, and, and sometimes you can do multiple pivots. And so I, I think right here Sean asks about what would a pricing model change fit or how would that fit here? What I've found with pricing changes and your mileage may vary, but like you're usually doing some other kind of pivot with it because the price point is just a price, just a number. 

You're moving it up or down. But what you're really doing is maybe you're going after a different market, maybe you realize that enterprise software or enterprise customers are better than S M B customers for your B two B business. So you kind of go, go sort of increase prices or you increase or you change the way you wanna price. Like you go from having subscription pricing to a metered pricing on a monthly basis or something like that. So to me there's always an underlying reason that might fall in these three buckets or a few others. But there are big buckets, not necessarily just what I would call some kind of tweak that you're making on the kind of pricing and business model, but again, all this stuff's debatable. I'm open to debate this. It's all about just if you're on a team and you need to start using this language, just make sure you're all clear on it and have even an answer for a question like what Sean asked if that's a concern on the team. 

Okay, I just needed the slide in here. And the reason I needed the slide in here is 'cause we're supposed to talk about product, but like really it's just, just customers. That's it. That I just needed the slide in here. I I could stay on this slide for probably like 10 minutes, but I'm, I'm not gonna do that. Maybe another couple seconds, but like I I, I can't, like, I don't even know how to express this. Like I, it's not so hot right now. It, it's just the thing you need to do. I don't care if you're in marketing, sales, product, whatever you're in, like, you have to dig, dig in, you have to talk to customers, you have, I mean all that stuff. And like I'm, I'm not, I'm sure I'm preaching to the choir right now, but like, it, it, it, it's like incredible. 

And, and what I mean by that, and, and, and this is a little bit personal for me, but basically I, I am absolutely so grateful for being able to work with my co-founder Marie. And there's one really dumb reason and and it's not one, only one reason. She's, she's an amazing human being, an amazing business person in my opinion and in a lot of other people's opinions, not to make that debatable, debatable. 'cause if she's hearing this, all of her like, oh, you know, imposter syndrome and those things will go off. But sorry, I I called you on it Marie. But basically my point on that is like we have thousands and thousands of pages in Google docs of raw notes 'cause of her sheer power of just taking the best notes when we're talking to customers. And it's not like she's like a note freak as I'd call it. 

'cause I I think that that would not be correct. She also is a, is a writer and all kinds of other things, but 'cause she doesn't write notes like on every meeting, no it's not about that. It's about, hey, if we're gonna spend time with the customer, we're gonna know what they said. And so if, if you ask me to hack the trick, the anything about the one silver bullet, if you are talking to a customer or someone who knows your customer, anybody, anything close to the customer like that, which could be almost everything. But, but you know, I I mean like anything, any conversation, do your best to take the best possible notes you can. I mean in, in our case, like we have two of us on the call. We have two of us on so many calls together because that richness of those notes and, and what we can get and garner out of them in the future. 

I mean some of the stuff we're looking at is like two or three years old, but it's so relevant still. No one solved these problems yet and it's 'cause our customer research is really good. Anyway, that was two minutes on this slide. I'm very proud of myself. Okay, so here's another one. This is a new one. I've been, I've been talking to a lot of people about pivots and product market fit as you can imagine. 'cause I've been tweeting about this stuff a lot and it's just so near and dear to my heart. And, and so someone asked me like, well like when, you know, when it's a pivot, well a hop is not a pivot. That's it. The they're not the same thing. So I'll just give one classic hop. And it's not to offend anybody that says this is a pivot or anything like that. 

This is just my opinion. I don't think Slack did a pivot. I think Slack did a hop. They were, but, but I don't know. I wasn't there. But this is from the outside. Some people call it a pivot. I think it's a hop. And a hop is literally, we're just gonna do something else. It's it. And honestly it's cool. Just don't call it a pivot. 'cause if it's a hop and you change from one one thing to another thing and there's no real learnings, you can connect together. Let's just call it a hop and that's okay. You can hop around. I got, I have nothing against that. I don't prefer to, I've done it before though. For the first, I would say two to three years of building software. So from about 2003 to 2006 back then my co-founder and I, we built like 12 different products. 

Everything was a hop, it was just a hop. Like one thing, another thing. And we were just almost ravenous to like hire programmers and build stuff. And we ended up landing on crazy. Ag is definitely successful. It's still a business that's around today. And we launched it in 2005. We built a lot of things. We built a podcast advertising network there, a web hosting company of sentiment tracker. I mean, oh my god. And this was like 2003 to 2006. So yeah. And I can't stress the, the difference like a pivot is when you actually learn something and you decide to make a deliberate change that you can justify, justify to yourself, justify to your team, make sure your team's on board, otherwise call it a hop. And so when it came to Slack, slack was building a game. It was called Glitch because I think a fantastic game. 

I might've played it once, I don't remember. And that was what their business was. They raised money to play, to build a game. In fact, Stewart Butterfield was one of the founders of Flicker. And even at Flicker, they were building a game of some kind first and then they got Flicker and then Flicker sold to Yahoo and we still have Flicker and it's still out there, which is amazing. And then Slack, it was a game, it was called Glitch, like I said. And basically they were, what what I heard was, and what I recall is that they were building some chat tool internally. I don't think it had anything to do with the game. And it was like I r C. So internet relay chat I believe. And yeah, I had used I R C and stuff before, but basically they were building a company i r C thingy. 

And what they ended up doing was basically straight up taking that work that they were building and basically starting letting their friends use it or something like that. So that's the story that I heard. That sounds very much like a hop to me. So yeah, the pivot's not a hop all good though. Like you do you I'm, it's, it, it, it's, it's not a big deal. I've done it before like that. And if that helps you get to some place where you can build sustainable and successful business, that's awesome. Like I've done that too, but I prefer pivots. 'cause then, then I'm just more conscious about the changes we're making and they're very, they have more depth and, and it's like that. But sometimes you have to hop. Okay, so I know there's some questions here, so I'm gonna leave the slide up and answer some of them. 

I think Esh asked a really good question, so I'm gonna throw down on that one 'cause it's something I think about a lot and people ask me a lot about. So what he asked just to repeat it is, once you have taken tons of notes, how do you draw insights from them? How do you organize those notes from insights browsing through a hundred pages each time you wanna develop something won't be feasible. Practical? Yeah, it is feasible and practical. And here's why. You could search in a document for key words. You can find things, you can also decide that you wanna summarize at certain phases and stages of that. So it's not a big deal. I don't let things like that get in the way of, of basically what Amazon calls customer obsession. You just have to be obsessed with them. And the only way to do that is by knowing so much about them and being able to go back and draw those insights again. 

I mean look, if you really want to like you can, you can record things and transcribe them. We don't do that. We actually don't prefer recording any calls. We'd rather take notes and that might hurt us even. And I know a lot of people are cool with recordings, but we feel like the customer's a little more comfortable when you're not recording anything. And again, that's a personal kind of stylistic thing more than anything else. But at the end of the day, I would say that like you wanna get over this idea that you wanna automate these things when it comes to insights and customer research and analyzing it. And you really want to focus in on like this idea that you have that information. And then as you build your product, as you learn new things, you go mine that information and all of a sudden you have instant insights and then you have basically what you can do next with that. 

Which is take those insights, create your hypotheses, dig in deeper, do some customer development. But you know what's ironic about this? Like it saves you so much time and effort because there's so much customer development or research you don't need to do because you already did it. And you can already find these nuggets. You can even follow up from those people you talked to before. Yo, what's up with this? You said this like, I'd love to dig in more or whatever it is. The the the, the benefits are priceless. Very hard to, I'm not trying to say this is easy, I'm not even trying to say that. You shouldn't try to operationalize some parts of it and stuff like that. I'm just saying you don't wanna let that get in the way of anything. And yes, I like, I like obsidian. I have a new product called Reflect by the founder of Clearbit that I'm using. 

I mean you could do all those things, please like do your little like brackets and like make it a network. Like do all that whatever you want. But like, don't think for a second that it's not worth taking those notes. I guess that's, that's my, that's my kind of main, main thing. I'm gonna answer some more of these questions about, about notes for a few more minutes just 'cause they're kind of fun and so, okay. Dan, can I just do surveys to be quicker? I we do surveys too. How about both? Yeah, absolutely. Tons of surveys. In fact like, you know, when we raise some money we do more surveys 'cause you can pay for the panels and all that good stuff. We have a perpetual user testing account that we use the crap out of. Yeah, everything under the sun to do research. There's a new tool called Winter, w y n t e r.io by the guy that started Conversion xl. 

Which is like, I mean he, he knows about conversion optimization more than anybody I've, I've seen. And like his research tools are amazing actually. We get better research from his tools than some of the panels from some of the other bigger players. But anyway, yes, surveys are great and yes, you can't, you can't replace surveys in interviews. Sometimes you can, if you're really, really good at knowing how to frame a survey and having a great audience that'll write paragraphs and paragraphs for you, but that's not typical, then you can get close. But interviews are gold, especially if you know how to ask questions and stuff like that. All right, I'm just gonna run down this so I can read it. I go back to my notes, find totally new features regularly. Yes. Awesome. Plus one. Barry, thanks for doubling down on that. Do you age out of your notes? 

Do you find that after a period of time the problem shifted, competitors entered, et cetera, where the interviews are no longer relevant? Yes, absolutely. But if you're paying attention to the customer, it doesn't matter. You'll know when, like some of these things get irrelevant or some companies change some things and it'll just be on your radar. I don't think it's a big deal. It's even, even if like something's a little bit dated or something, it's better than having nothing. And at least you can have a starting point. You can always follow up with these people, like I said, and ask them if this is still a problem. In fact, when a competitor does something or something shifts it doesn't mean everyone knows about it. So in fact it's, it's interesting to even look at that stuff and ask someone about those things and see if they've caught up. 

'cause it can give you an idea of how far away are you on something. I I really do think about how far ahead are we as a business? A lot actually. Yeah, it is qualitative research. Anthropological or just style? I'm, I'm all good. Like you can call it that. It's exactly the kind of thing. It, it is. I I try not to like try to label it too much just 'cause I I'm I'm just trying to stay focused. Stay focused on the customer, stay focused on the customer. It's all that matters. I've sometimes used the Dovetail app to highlight parts on notes and surface teams. Yep. Totally cool. Any kind of tools like that, like I said are super great if you use, if you wanna use them, we actually don't use any of them. Sometimes we do word class to dig into the content. 

And I'm not saying any of them are bad. Please do do what you want, but like we're very raw about this stuff and really want our minds on on the words. 'cause sometimes two words said differently and all all kinds of things you, you catch if you can actually just sit there and read yourself. But anything that helps you point to the right stuff with keywords or things like that I think is, is gold and great. How do you balance talking to customers at actual building? You just do it all. You just do it all. Like, like cus talking to customers is part of building. I'm not an engineer so like I get the, I get the, I get the ability to spend more of my time, time on non-engineering things and, and so I think you need dedicated people for this. Founders should be just doing and I think that you're gonna, if you're a founder, you're gonna end up having to do this a lot. 

You know, people say, oh CEOs, these are these three things they do, blah, blah blah. No you, you focus on customers. Everything else will take care of itself. At least that's my opinion. Surveys instead of interviews though both. Again, I'll say it again, both. I don't think there's instead but, but yeah, both Dan, come on. We've tried using mural and I use Rome research for personal use was looking for magical solution, which I guess doesn't exist. I'm sure it exists to somebody, but it doesn't exist to the level where I'm gonna feel like some kind of automated thingy a bobber is gonna do something better than a really good human brain that, that can critically think, make connections. You know, like you, you need to have that researcher mindset. A machine doesn't exactly have that yet. Although, you know, there's things like copy.ai for coming up with copy and things like that. 

I'm a big fan of those things. But that's more for marketing use cases, not research. What do you think the role of customer development is in the process? I think customer development's everything as well. In terms of like the type of research we do, we do a ton of that. It's very incorporated in almost every even call we have. If we can get salespeople to ask customer development style questions. We're we think we're winning and we think we've got a great sales sales team, your definition of PM starts with a good market. Can you elaborate on that? Do you mean a good market size? Nah, I think I, I think there are better explanations out there for, for better than I can really hit on for good market. I think the way I think about market today is your ideal customer profile. So it's more, to me like a good market is defined by a very specific customer profile that needs your product and then your, it's your job to decide market size and how market, how, how important market size is to you. 

That's not the job of product market fit. It's your job. And, and I don't mean by market size, I mean like your market could be 500 customers and if you think you can get all of them, that might be a, a big enough business for you. Or it could be millions and millions of customers because you have ambitions that are really great and you want, you know, you wanna rule the world, whatever. It's, so yeah, I think people try to mix these things together and for me it's just like your I C P defines your market and your market size and things like that and even how that evolves over time. And you wanna find matching products for each I C P basically. But that, that's how I think about an I C P is just ideal customer profile. I've been using that a lot lately 'cause people are telling me that talking a lot of marketers lately in, in sales folks. But it, it is ideal customer profile. I'm really, I'm really in tune with that kind of concept these days. 

Yeah, I don't know about handwritten or visual or, or visual. I, I, my handwriting's terrible. My dad's a physician. I inherited that from him with genetics or something like that. So I don't really mess around with handwritten notes. I, I type everything. I type really fast. Sometimes I can type about 120 words per minute. I also read super fast and can skimm things. So like I've just got, it's just a muscle and I love that muscle. I keep practicing it. I can do it anytime. So yeah. How many customers do you try to speak with each round of research? At least, at least a dozen. It's either a dozen at least or until, until we hear repetitive things then we know we gotta switch up the questions or, or you know, the customer retargeting our audiences is, is needs to be switched up or something like that. 

Oh, customers drawing things versus verbalizing. Yeah, I've I've never been a fan of them drawing things unless they want to. That's always been my, my take. I I've found, I've found verbal is fine in my experience at least. Oh yeah, that's a good one. Dan, you down with I c p? Yeah, you know me. That's great. Okay, after releasing product, you also consider metrics like m p s core to pivot your product. I don't really use N P SS to pivot. I think it's just one, one signal and it just tells you whether people are satisfied or not. N P SS is actually tricky to use to pivot, but I know Dan and I are gonna have some jam sessions on metrics in, in our fireside chat. So I'm gonna save it for that. All right, I'm gonna get back to this. That was great. 

Please do it again if, if you folks wanna pile on any kind of questions. These are all like very common questions I get so you know, I might need some kind of massive F A Q on this stuff or something 'cause that would be pretty exciting so I could point people to it. Okay, so we pivoted recently. We, we announced this on June 1st at my company now called neera. And it started with us building a, a enterprise search tool, which was meant to basically find your document across all the different tools you use. And then what we did is we, we have this story, it's in this tweet, it's pinned to my profile. You can check it out if you can check it out while I'm speaking to. But it's a really interesting story. You'll see some nuggets as I'm speaking in it. But basically the idea was we went from something that was focused on individuals inside of companies as well as personal use, which is really wide. 

And then for now something that's focused on sort of IT people and the IT department, including security folks and the security team and legal and compliance teams. Because all of these folks have this problem where now that we're collaborating in the cloud, there's a major need to protect the documents that exist in all the different services that you're using. And we we're starting with Google workspace, but that also will, we'll kind of, I'll, I'll, I'll explain some more as we go. So I'm just gonna keep going but this was kind of what, what's happened to my company and the whole business has completely changed and we definitely have product market fit now, at least the earliest version of that. And I'm super pumped about it. I've seen this before but this one's pretty good. So I get, I got a lot of questions about pivots and so I made an email about pivots. 

I know some of you might have read it 'cause some of you came here from my email list. Thank you for being on it. I'm going to talk through these, which I think will give you some more color than what I did with the four or five questions that I answered in the email list. But this is basically pieces of that email that I sent. So what made it necessary to pivot F Y I? Well I think you heard the whole spiel about it has to be about a critical change in your business, rooted in customer learnings. That's kind of the best way I can say it. So this was interesting because for us we just think we found a bigger opportunity that we wanted to pursue. So that's it. That that was it. And for us, the real, real truth underneath all of this is that we wanted to find the quickest, easiest way to, I'm gonna try, I'm just trying to fix the mic so hopefully that's better. 

But anyway, yeah, I guess it did, the mic did fail product market fit. So, so again, like I was saying, the truth of this is we just wanted to find something where we had a faster, quicker, less friction path to revenue. And with our enterprise search tool that wasn't gonna happen. It was gonna take more and more cycles of trying to figure out a bottom up business model and things like that. And instead we, we had these huge crazy signals about what people really wanted, which was something more fundamental, which is protecting their documents. And it's, we, we don't think it's just for the IT department or security for folks or legal folks, we think it's about everybody in the company. We think it's about any size company. But those are all things that kind of, you know, are just related to our ambition and, and how we think about building these businesses. 

Okay. So how did you deal with the pivot personally? So what I've seen, every time we've pivoted one of my businesses and I probably pivoted technically roughly real pivots probably seven or eight times in, in my sort of founder life. And, and, and this one actually probably more probably closer to 10 or 11 if I really think about it, thought of some that were actually pivots, not hops and others that were hops and, and so it it's drama in your head it, it, it's, it's it's it's it's sometimes psychologically draining, sometimes it's confusing and the reason is you have something you were building and you probably got some level of feedback and attention and things for it and it might've been decent too. But then you're hearing all these things in the market and, and you continue to listen and hear all these things in the market about something new. 

And then you wanna make sure you don't have things like shiny object syndrome. So, you know, we spent some time like kind of balancing working on both until we were really sure, which just involved us doing more interviews, really getting conviction and you know, you know, I really, really believe in the sunk cost fallacy, which is this idea that you might have worked on something for a long time and and you just are so held onto it. But that's like attachment and like, you know, we all got attachment issues to work through and things like that. I'm sure not to put anything on anybody, but I definitely have my own versions of that. And I think in business, especially when you're kind of starting something new or working on something new, it, it can be really challenging to give it up for something else that's new and probably just as risky. 

And so yeah, we just, we're trying to be as objective as we could. We made a whole pivot document about it's time to pivot. My co-founder and I really got, got good with the idea that this makes sense and it was the best thing to do for the business. So we always try to go back to what's the best thing to do for business, which means what's the best thing to do for our prospects of getting to customers as fast as possible, getting to meaningful revenue as fast as possible. So those kind, those are the kinds of things that were underneath kind of why we did it and how we dealt with it. 

Okay, how do you sell the new direction to the team? So I don't really believe in selling the direction to the team. I think that that's a misnomer. Another way to think about it is maybe you're selling it every day as you're in the process of of, of understanding and learning it. So learning like what you need to do. So for us it was just very simple and, and I'll, I'll give another analogy. So if any of you have ever had a stakeholder that's an investor in your company, and there's some people that debate me on this, but like we send an investor update on the first Monday of every month at 8:00 AM it shows up in the investors in in boxes if we have investors in our business. We started doing that even before we got investors in our business when we were just Marie and I and, and this small team we had, we were just trying to basically get ready for that or just start, you know, communicating more with the team. 

So we, we make sure that everyone's in the know with systems like that. So that's just a good example of systems that I recommend around as, as things are happening, there's like an update cadence could be an all hands, could be whatever, but what you wanna do is make sure that those customer learnings that are coming are being shared with the team and they're shared in a structured way. Not just like, oh hey look at this awesome thing a customer said or look at this bug. It's more like, hey, this week these are the customer conversations we had, here's what we're thinking about now. Just kind of that openness is really helpful and we we're doing that with our investors every month and giving them an update. So I look at it as like a similar thing which is you have stakeholders, your team are stakeholders, investors are stakeholders, even your customers are stakeholders and, and kind of my perception of it. 

So you want everyone to be in the know of what's going on, why it's happening and all that kind stuff. So some of these questions are really useful. What what, just describing the problem the customer has and how they describe it, who they are, how painful is a problem to them, you know, whatever ways you can figure, figure that out. Like for example, how much loss in revenue is there, if you know the problem's not solved, how much loss in productivity is there, any of those kind of details are really helpful if you can get down to those early on. And then also a willingness to pay and figuring out all the different ways you can figure that out. Whether it's through surveying or literally making people pull out their credit card if you can go there. Things like that. 

So yeah, and and to your question, AARs, I just saw it and I think it's a good one. If you're sending investors a regular update and you're telling them what's going on, you're not surprising them and saying, Hey, it's time to pivot. You're saying the same thing you would tell your team, these are the things that are happening, here is why we are doing this. And you have your justification. They can agree or not, they can give you a hard time, but you are being a business person, sharing with them your business and giving them the update. Then it's on them to basically either accept it and move on or give you a hard time. But then you can say, hey, I'm doing this, like this is what I'm doing. And I've explained it and I've explained why. Like you can try poking holes in it, but at the end of the day, it's your business, your decision. 

So I think it's not, we are going to pivot this. It is, we have learned these things and we're gonna change our direction in these ways because of these things and we believe that's gonna achieve x and that we believe that's gonna achieve x. That's where people can't debate you. If that x that you're gonna achieve is more revenue, faster growth in the business, like getting closer to product market fit, what have you. Okay, what kind of signal and how much did you get to know a new idea would work and and the old one won't. It is, in our case, I was trying to say this before, it wasn't like the old one wouldn't, it was just like the amount of work we thought it would take for that one. And I think my next question might be related to this, but the amount of work it would take here it is, yeah, was too much compared to this new direction that we kind of validated really, really thoroughly and tried to figure out, hey, like not, not like trying to like almost like, for lack of a better word, like poo on the other one. 

It's not the point. The point is did you find a better way? Is there a better way to product market fit? Is there a better thing we should be doing as a business? And better is defined by like faster the customer, more revenue, bigger opportunity, something that it gets us more excited 'cause the customer is excited more pain. Truly, if you really wanna get down to it, like the, the best pivots are when you found more pain to solve deeper pain, you know, a harder problem in a way that customers have a more challenging problem for them. That's where I would go with it. That's what I would focus on. Not necessarily pooing on the old one. 'cause like the old thing's fine. Like, like, like you gotta move on from that, right? You have to focus on not the new but like the why behind it. 

So that's the way we thought about it. We did have a great roadmap. We did start selling that product and, and trying at least to go, go kind of really sell it in to the market. We actually had a big opportunity that we still have sitting there around a desktop app that we were building oriented around the enterprise search opportunity and we thought we could sell, there's still a possibility of selling to it, the document search product, not just the document access control product. But, but we couldn't fo we had to focus, we had no choice and we didn't, we real realized that we didn't wanna get distracted and bogged down by like having to deal with two tracks at as a very, at a very small company with less than a dozen team members. So yeah, once we saw strong indicators during sales calls where people wanted to buy, people wanted to start POCs and all that, it was just on like, like that that we had to do it. 

We had no choice. We couldn't do the other thing. It'd be silly, it'd be stupid, it'd be not, not, not a good idea to continue that when there's so much signal here and that's not always the case. But when you can find those opportunities to pivot, like those are the real ones and you should spend a lot of time trying to get to that better thing with very objectively better thing. Was it painful, fun or both? I think it's, honestly, pivots are just so insanely a mix of all that. But what's exciting is like the customer you can serve the opportunity that you find within the business, the things you can actually do to solve customer problems. So we just get excited about that and, and, and that that's what we want. We wanna solve problems for people with our business and our product. So I think for us, like I'm pretty fundamental about this stuff. 

It's like, hey, I'm having fun if I'm solving problems, that's me though, that's my personality. Other people might think of it different way, but I think that's how you define how it's fun for you, which is like what do you gravitate towards? What do you care about? Like what gets you going? What, you know, what what gets you to wake up in the morning? For me it's actually solving problems for other people. Like, like I get excited about that, especially when there's a lucrative opportunity where I can build a massive business adding value to the world. So that's the way I think about it on a high level. 

All right, some more tweets. So this, this was, this was it. Yeah, that's it. If there's a problem, yo, I'll solve it. Yeah, that's, that's it. I don't, I don't see any other way to think about business. So the, the, this is specifically how we found fit. We did this, we studied, basically we did our homework and, and again, I was never good at doing homework. Marie was the one that, that from what what she's told me, she, she just did her homework. She never cheated on a test or anything like that. I was exact opposite. But anyway, we did our homework. We, we looked for what the underserved opportunities are in the market that we're going after. We had people we were talking to in it telling us that there are problems related to who has access to documents and they had no way to solve them. 

And when they tried solving them with alternatives to us that existed before us, some of them are some products with some features, some of them are kind of stitched together solutions using admin APIs in Google. They were just inadequate and they weren't solving the problem thoroughly. And we had people showing us products they were using to try to solve this problem and screen sharing with us the, the Google admin console or any alternative that they were trying to use to solve the problems that we're now solving. And we just saw how terrible of an experience it was for them. It was as simple as that. And once we started seeing that we knew what to do, we, we, we were like just taking copious notes, learning from these customers, hearing what they didn't like, them showing us where it was failing them and us realizing that there was an opportunity. 

It's not like every time you see this, you're gonna find an opportunity. So I'm not trying to say, hey, this is the path. What I'm saying is you have to look for underserved market opportunities somewhere where the competitor, the alternatives, whatever it may be, the stitch together solutions are not serving the market and, and someone specific, some specific type of customer. And so we were able to find that with what we got to with Neera, which is basically that it teams have poor tools for administering the, the documents that exist across the whole company. Just very poor tools. They have to stitch together things, they have to do all sorts of things. They use command line tools today. It's kind of best in class. Alright, so I needed a pithy way to say this 'cause you know, these kind of tweets do better than the other tweets. 

But basically what I'm saying here is like, this is how you innovate. You, you find problem, you make sure it's the right problem to solve and then you solve problem. And you can do this repetitively in a business. All you need to do is get good at this. This is the hardest thing to get good at. But if you get good at that and then operationalize it inside your company, you will keep growing. You will be able to gain product market fit and essentially barely lose it. Or never lose it again. So, yeah, I I, I can't stress this enough. It's this simple and all the tactics I'm sharing are all about finding the problem. And then, you know, I'll talk about the solution, you know, if I have a chance, I might even demo the product a little bit so you can see how we solve this problem that we heard. But this is it. And this is the tweet. It's a tweet. This is the tweet. Okay, this one's fun. I I couldn't help but share this. We only got this comment a couple times when we were demoing our product early to, to CIOs, a few CIOs and, and, and this, there's this whole, hey, this is a feature, not a product. 

Yeah, yeah, yeah. I take that as a compliment 'cause I know where we wanna go. I know where we're gonna go. As long as I believe as a team and we believe as a team that this wedge into the market is a right wedge. This is a compliment. This means that someone sees that, that it's so narrow. We did our job early on. We built something so tiny that someone thinks it's just the future. As long as we know what happens next. As long as we know from our research how this wedges into a bigger opportunity, this is a compliment. I can't stress it enough. And that, that's not to say anyone's saying it is wrong. It's like, yeah, this is what you feel today when you look at it. Respect, I get it. But you know what, that's intentional 'cause that's how you build product at any scale. New features, new products, whatever it is, you start with something so tiny that it's uncomfortable. I think that would be my, my sort of pithy line with this. With everything you do in product, you should start with something so tiny. It's uncomfortable. 

Okay, so promise, we're gonna talk about metrics and measurement and stuff like that, about product market fit later. But this is something that Dan and I talked about briefly earlier on text today as, as we were kind of making sure that, you know, this was a great event for everybody. And what that is, is that you're not gonna be able to measure this. You're gonna feel it and then the measurements will come, but you're just gonna feel it. And this feeling of of of the customers pulling the product out of you, like it's hard to explain unless you've experienced it. It's like for us, it's like everything the customer says there isn't like debating it with us ourselves, internally or the customer. It is important and it should be done for them. And when you can get like 80, 90, a hundred, a hundred is hard, but 80, 90% of your conversations in that direction, you're on the pulse of the need. 

You're on the pulse of the problem. You, you should desperately seek to keep that. 'cause that means you're building the right things. That means the next things you're building makes sense. All of that. Like this is a really important point. And when you have this like you just cannot build fast enough, this is what you're trying to get to. I hope all of you find a way to get this feeling because then it it like the, the the the, you're going so fast. The wheels feel like they're coming off all the time and it's kind of insane. And it, it, it's, it's where you wanna get to. It's what you're trying to figure out. And that is a feeling that is things people tell you that is like genuinely tell you when you demo the product, everyone's like, yeah, I get it. You know, this makes sense, right? 

Things like that. Those are, those are the things you're trying to find. Yeah, I I just wanted to double down on this a little bit. The, these quantitative quantitative measures tend to be lagging indicators of product market fit. What I mean is things like retention, high conversion rate, even closing deals. These are like quantitative things. They're great, you need them, but you need the things that give you conviction before that. And those things are the sort of leading indicators. A lot of them are qualitative. M p s is a form of a qualitative measure that's turned quantitative, that does work. Retention is a lagging indicator though. And so what leads to high retention? Usually high satisfaction, high m p s usually, again, a lot of people debate mb n p Ss. I just think it's one data point of many. But here's the magic. It's when you actually can align on the leading indicators. 

That's why if you do know m p Ss well and have found success with it, that's great 'cause that's your leading indicator. That's a leading indicator for high retention, leading indicator for renewals on sales or like conversions from a free trial or all that good stuff. And I know I'm just mentioning that one, but that is one that the world knows very well and is kind of a, a standard so to speak. It was very good. Just make sure after you ask someone, you know what the n p s is like. Like not the n p s, but like, you know, would you recommend it zero to 10 or whatever to a friend or whatever colleague, you wanna make sure you ask what's the number one reason for your score? That's it. Just ask that, make it open-ended in the description of it. Like say, please tell us as much as you can write or something crazy like that. 

So they write a lot to you. That is where the gold is not necessarily the score, but what you can do when you have those like just really meaty, I don't eat meat, but meaty, fake, meaty kind of points of feedback and information and then quantifying it by, oh the unsatisfied people said this, satisfied people said that. And then kind of doing a diff and understanding the difference between the two. Those are all the detailed tactics of how you analyze the stuff by segmentation and analysis. It's the stuff I geek out on. 'cause I think it's like really where a, a lot of, where the magic happens and all that helps you communicate to the team and makes things that are hard to quantify, quantifiable. I focus on those things much more than things like retention or, or or the sales numbers and conversions. 'cause those are lagging metrics. 

Those are great. Those are more higher level operational things to like help guide the team, help set goals and things like that. But you don't have any of that early on. It's a mess and and satisfaction and these qualitative measures tends to be better. Anyway, there's a bunch of these word of mouth and referrals are actually number one. Usually I would say word of mouth and referrals are probably like the first thing you start seeing. And then you have all these other things, quantitative retention, qualitative surveys, unit economics, profitability, all good stuff. And then you also have other forms of fit like founder market fit and all these other fun things that people have come up with. Those are all good too. I mean those are all, you know, the, the, the content that's written about those things are actually very good. They're, they're written by folks that I highly respect and I think that they know their, and so I would be looking at some of those things. 

Reforge is a site that comes to mind that has a lot of this content around different types of fits. I would definitely study some of that stuff 'cause like it takes product market fit to another level and I think it'll help you kind of understand different things that you might be grappling with as you're building for product market fit. This is like, I can't stress this enough, but distractions will kill your product. Market fit is, there's a lot of shiny objects. There's a lot of things that customers might say if you ask it the wrong way or if they're just like rambling about something that just is irrelevant. And that's why we tend to like spend actually less time analyzing after the fact of an interview unless we're just trying to fill in some things that we might've missed while we were typing or whatever. 

But we end up doing a lot more analysis later on once we've heard some patterns or when we know there are some patterns in the data or the qualitative data and the interview notes before we kind of go analyze something. Because I think those are common ways that people get distracted because they hear one thing from one customer or potential customer and then they think that that's like the thing they need to extrapolate and everyone else is like that and that's mostly not the case. So that's one type of distraction. Another is just like, you know, the decision we had to make of, do we do both at the same time. Enterprise search tool and a tool for it and CIOs and, and all that stuff, which is basically a security tool or do we, you know, kind of like just focus on one and we had to make a decision and that was kind of a very smart and good decision for us. 

Yeah, this is something that I just wanted to point out I guess and it's something that I, I see constantly and then I have some slides on like what what you can do about it. But it's really this, this, this idea that at a startup when you get into this position where you can't build a product fast enough, you end up usually being in a spot where you have a lot of tech debt and, and other kinds of debt. Even like some emotional debt from the journey, some culture debt, things like that. And, and like you end up not being able to keep up and, and, and that means that you can easily lose a market, especially if what you built has product market fit in a market that's crowded and you're kind of innovative. There's a lot more for you to build. And so I call this the main battle to win And it's, it's not just the main product battle. 

I think it's the main battle period to win at the early stages, which is like how do you make sure that you can continue to innovate, continue to stack more value on top of what you've built continuously and continue to even expand your underserved market to more underserved folks and, and eventually the the wide market. And you do that by, by stacking innovation on top of innovation. And I think it's tricky to do and I have have an example coming up that's that that's gonna kind of unpack this a little bit that's kind of an offshoot of some of the other stuff. So it's called this thing that that, that internally at our business we call step ones. And I wanted to give an example that has nothing to do with neira or F Y I or any of the things I've done. 

So let me, let me, let me, let me continue and kind of go through this. So basically I'm gonna use Instagram as an example. This is one I do like to share pretty often and I just wish more people kind of heard it and knew it that worked in product or related fields. So that's why I like to share it. So it's about starting with step one, it's a concept we have at, at my company and I I saw Instagram do this. So we have Pinterest, Instagram has had some level of Pinterest envy obviously because Instagram is now powered part of Facebook. Pinterest is very visual products, so is Instagram. Instagram was a very mobile first, mobile only for the longest time. Then they built out their web presence and you know, Pinterest is all built on this idea of saving things to a collection. 

And so early on, you know, Instagram, I'm sure somebody internally was thinking through all this and I wanted to figure out like how how they could kind of approach this, these set of problems that people have related to saving collections and and and things like that. So what Instagram did, and this was about now almost five years ago back in 2016, is they introduced saved posts. Very innocuous little thing. They basically realigned their, their pages without much effort or too many crazy changes and literally put this like little bookmark on every item. That's it. Just put the bookmark and I think it said saved maybe. And you had to go really dig into your profile and and get into the saved area. It was very hard to get to but and it even had to say like only you can see what you've saved 'cause there is no sharing of this. 

But that was how they got in the game and that was what I would call a step one. And you can imagine this is at Instagram scale. So they probably tested the the icon and watched people try to tap it and nothing happened. I'm sure they did those things in really small increments. They probably tested the treatment and before they came up with this bookmark in terms of the icon and all those things, they probably did a whole bunch of things. They probably even messed with the placement. They have an ability to test at scale and then they probably saw what the results were both quantitatively and qualitatively you can guarantee even before they ship this. So then they did that and that was December of 2016. And then by April almost five months to the day later they basically added collections. And even if you look today, collections exist on Instagram. 

And the key thing here is that they said that since we introduced the ability to save posts last December, 46% of Instagrammers have saved at least one post. Anyone will tell you that that's a super high percentage of people using a new feature in a product. Anyone will tell you that it, it's it, it's just ridiculous. And they probably knew before they shipped it that they were gonna have a high percentage of people using the feature and then that's when they introduced the saving of a collection or the saving of items to a collection. Naming a collection. And this is exactly similar to very much so what the interface is today still. And they still haven't built like public collections pages or anything like that. It's still this little feature that probably just keeps you in Instagram because it's saving stuff for you. So you get this fomo, you get this feeling that like hey all that stuff's gonna be gone, I'm not gonna have it anymore even if you never go look at it. 

I don't know who's looked at their collections on Instagram, not that's a knock but it's very rare from what I hear. But saving them is a common thing and that's like what we like to do as humans and I think they really figured out this psychology and kind of built it into Instagram and now they have a play against Pinterest if they ever want one or they make these pages public, they really make a bigger deal out of it whenever they feel like it. But this was a step one and not this, this was actually what we would call at at our company a step two. But the step one was just get in the game, make sure that that game is the right game to be in on the product and the treatment of it and this, make sure it gets the adoption you want and then go double down on it. And then in their case they're waiting. I'm sure it's a thriving feature at the moment and it's probably serving whatever their needs are, which is probably increasing retention probably more than quite a bit I would imagine since the introduction of this. So I'd love sharing this. This is like if they can do it at their scale, I don't see why we can't, anyone can't do it in terms of really these small tight product iterations. 

So I wanted to share that 'cause that's, that's one of the big problems that people have, you know after they reach product market fit a little bit after but even before that you kind of have to build like that too. So this is just like a doubling down it, it's a very differentiated feature than Pinterest according to people and I think they're right. So I just wanted to point out that like I think Instagram had a major win here and Pinterest still gets to exist which is kind of cool. So I was just gonna do a quick demo and kind of demonstrate some of the ways we've applied this principle in our product. So I'm gonna do that and I think I don't have a lot of time left but I'm sure Dan won't mind I have three or four minutes so let me jump into that and talk through some of this stuff. Thanks Dan. 

So this is the second time I'm demoing the product publicly. There's been hundreds of demos to potential customers and other folks partners and stuff like that. But this is the first time that I'm doing it in a product group. I've demoed it to IT people before. So not that many people have seen this, now there's 60 more of you to see it that are sitting here live. Okay? So what we did and what neera is, is it's meant to find that every document that exists in your Google workspace. And what I mean by that is every document that has been created by someone in the company as well as every document that's been shared with the company created by external parties and the whole idea of the product is to basically be able to find groups of things, individual things and and and be able to manage access to them. And we don't store the documents themselves, we don't analyze anything in the documents, we just focus on the metadata on the documents. So things about the documents. And so lemme just demo the product and some of the functionality and then I'll get into some of the use cases and even how we kind of thought about iterating it to get here. So this product has infinite scroll. 

We have really large customers that are using this. One of our customers has 13 million documents in this interface and it's just as fast for them as with our 12,000 documents. And we have, we knew that this was important when we did our research and looked at every single tool that IT people and security people use and admins use. We learned that all these products have pagination. We didn't find a single one that had an infinite scroll experience. And yeah Sean, thanks for the question. I don't know how long it takes but it's as fast as it possibly can be right now. And we're constantly working to make it faster to get to the 13 million documents at the bottom. It's not about getting to the bottom, it's about this experience here. We can click, get all the details on the document, see who has access to it, exactly how they got access. 

Are they a owner, are they a editor? Did they get access via a link? And the whole product is connected. So you click up here and get to this area and start, you know, some people that come to us have hundreds and hundreds of documents that they're, I'm sorry, hundreds and hundreds of people that are on these documents. They wanna just see the personal accounts for example, they can click with one click here, see them and usually people wanna remove access from personal accounts that have access to company documents. That was one of the things we learned as we were building this product that one of the big use cases is all this accidental sharing that happened within a company when personal accounts are creating documents and then sharing them with the company accidentally usually. Or you're clicking from a personal account into your work account and now all of a sudden like you have access to a document from your personal account and it really gets bothered by this legal does too. 

And they have no way of like really getting down to the details on this. So you know, you can take seven different actions on on any document change, link transfer ownership, add collaborators, remove collaborators, copy the link, send the email, delete item, a bunch of those things. You can also take bulk action. So one example of what everyone likes to do is go here, go to all the documents that have public links. This means they're accessible just with the link. There's one of my documents on the alt tag and then you can go here and click on, oh they haven't been modified in over a year, we already cleaned ours up so there's none that show up there but what customers are doing is clicking there. If it's hundreds and hundreds of documents, it's totally cool they're taking action and we give them the ability to do that which is they click on all of them and they're able to change the link type with just a couple clicks here. 

And then we have a full audit log that tells you all the actions that we took for you. This is things that took like they weren't possible at scale with like more than a few hundred documents or even dozens with any other tool. No other tool had this level of comprehensive data where you could see everything as an IT person. And then basically, so we learned all those things and so then we started basically building this out and then built this action system and it's like literally no other tool can do it from what we've heard from our customers. And so basically the thing I wanted to share there was you notice like you could, you could view it, we have this like sort of infinite scroll experience. You can click on things like, oh these are all the documents that are accessible by personal accounts. 

I'll get into a couple other areas and do some quick examples there too just so you can kinda see how we thought about it. One of the things we did though is our sort of step one here was literally just build the interface to view all the stuff, don't even take action on it, just view the interface, just build to basically see all the stuff. And we were able to bring customers on with that without this dot, dot, dot to take action or any of the stuff, any of the check check marks here where you can delete all these or whatever you wanna do. No actions in the system because that was gonna be objectively super hard to build and required us to do this first. And what we realized is no one's built this, this experience of being able to see everything no one's built. 

And so we wanted to start with that and then we knew people wanted to take action. So then we built that next after we already had a whole bunch of people using the product and giving us feedback on it and helping us work through a whole bunch of the kinks. And then we decided to build actions into the interface. And so some other areas we have is like we have the ability to look at all people and how what documents are shared with them, how many of them, how many they own. It's kind of like a report you can look at your top offenders of, or not offenders, but folks who are creating the most documents, et cetera. One of the most powerful things is you can go come here and see all the personal accounts that access, that have access and a lot of people just wanna do this. 

I wanna select all and remove everybody because it's, it's essentially some form of a compliance violation to have people outside the company having access to company information and you just don't know what they have access to. Also our product, like I said, it's interconnected so I can click here, you can see all the documents and kind of scroll through them. You can click up here and get back to this documents area. Again, other things that we learned during our customer development was just necessary to build and no other product had it. And those were the things that we were really keen on finding so that when, when it was demoed like this, people are like wow, this solves a problem in a logical way and better than any other tool I can find. And that's the goal, that's a fundamental goal. This is how we reach product market fit. 

This is another area which is shows you all the domains and even the number of people that have access to by these domains. This was another thing, it's kind of a, a flip around on kind of the, it's like a pivot on the data again, I'm supposed to talk about pivot, so let's talk about pivot tables too and then you can essentially take all these 68 people off of all these documents and you're done. Right? So that was a really useful piece of it. And then we have our audit log as I mentioned, which is really, you know, it loves our audit logs and rightfully so. So yeah this is kind of how we think about building product and, and what we built. And then now one of the next things we're building is a security feed and that feed is right here. It has a couple, you know, non blurred things. 

We haven't blurred this area yet and I know people are talking about our blurs so I'll, I'll tell you what, how we did the blurs is actually deceptively simple and I'm super happy with the solution we came up with. Happy for anyone to steal it but basically this is a feed and so all those things I was digging into and poking around, well we wanna surface those for you, we wanna tell you all the risky stuff. So this is what we're building next. But again you'll see these are like just iterative steps. We're gonna build another type of feed next where it's customizable but that's next and that will build next. Other people would've built all this stuff at once and then we have all kinds of fantastic things to do next as well as add more tools that we integrate with. So, and it's not even the obvious ones like document tools, we're gonna add all kinds of things into this. 

It's gonna be a lot of fun. But basically I wanted to kind of share this and make sure that you saw kind of how we think about it in a quick kind of demo of the product and how we've kind of evolved it and how we'll just continue to do it that way. So yeah, that's me. That's the demo. I don't think I have anything else to share. I will answer that one question. The way we did the blur is we basically use a bookmarklet, a JavaScript bookmarklet and basically identified things in, I believe it's some kind of CSS S electro or a diviv or something like that. And just identifying an ID on it and are using the JavaScript to add the blur effect on all those, all those items. And so literally before I got on the, on this call, I had set up my, I loaded it and obviously it's un blurred and then there's two bookmarklets. 

I hit one for the names and one for like the names, like the titles of the documents and another for all the email addresses and things like that. I hit one bookmark, it covers up all the emails. I hit another one, it covers up all the names and I'm good to go. And like again, we think everything in that iterative product driven step one fashion. So this was a step one so our engineers didn't have to do anything to make it so we could hide the P I I on the site and not get into these demos where we have to show our data. 'cause that's just not cool and we wouldn't wanna do that. 

Thanks Eden for a great talk. I really appreciate it and all the q and a. That was awesome.
