This is a transcript of a lecture given by Rahul Vohra, the CEO and founder of Superhuman. His lecture is titled "The Foolproof Formula for Finding Product Market Fit." At the end of the lecture, is a question and answer section.


Please give it up for Rahul. Thank you. 

Rahul: Alright, good morning everyone. Thank you for getting up so early for this. I'm the founder and c e O of Superhuman where we make the fastest email experience in the world. Our customers get through their inbox about twice as fast as before and many see inbox zero for the first time in years. Now. This is the story of how we built a product market fit engine product market fit is the number one reason why startups succeed and the lack of products market fit is the number one reason why startups fail, but what really is products market fit? Paul Graham, the founder of Y Combinator, would say that product market fit is when you made something that people want. Sam Altman. Until recently, the president of Y Combinator would say that product market fit is when users love your product so much that they spontaneously tell other people to go and use it. 
But it is perhaps Mark Andreessen one of the best venture capitalists of all time who said this. He put it in the most vivid and compelling way. You can almost always feel it when products market fit is not happening, customers aren't quite getting value, users are not growing, word of mouth is not spreading. The press reviews are mediocre and the sales cycle takes too damn long. But he said you can almost always feel it when product market fit is happening. Customers are buying as fast as you can add servers, you're hiring sales and support as fast as you can. Reporters are constantly calling you about your hot new thing. Money is piling up in your checking accounts and investors are camping outside your house. This is indeed a vivid and compelling definition. A one that I was staring at through tears in the summer of 2017. 
You see, it seemed so unactionable, so subjective. What do you do? If by this definition you do not have product market fit? Indeed, I began to wonder, can you measure product market fit? Because if you could, then you could optimize it. Perhaps you could systematically even numerically increase product market fit. And as it turns out, the answer is yes. You can measure it and you can optimize it. But before I share how, let's wind the clock back by nine years to 2010. Nine years ago I started this company, Reportive. We built the first Gmail plugin to scale to millions of users. When people emailed you, we showed you what they look like, where they worked their recent tweets or links to their social profiles. We scaled rapidly and in two years we were acquired by LinkedIn. Now during these four years, I developed an intimate sense of email. 
I could see Gmail bizarrely becoming worse every single year, becoming more cluttered, consuming more memory, using more C P U, slowing down your laptop and still not working properly offline. And then on top of that, people were installing plugins like our own Reportive, but also Boomerang, Mixmax, Clearbit, Yesware, you name it, they had it. And each one of those plugins took these issues of clutter memory, C P U, offline performance and made each one of them dramatically worse. So we decided it was time for change. We imagined an email experience that is blazingly fast, where searches instantaneous, where everything happens in a hundred milliseconds or less. An email experience where you never had to touch the mouse, where you could do everything from the keyboard and fly through your inbox, an email experience that just worked offline so you could be productive from anywhere. And an email experience that had the best Gmail plugins natively built in and yet was still somehow subtle, minimal and visually gorgeous. And so in the summer of 2015, we opened up our offices. This was our fancy sign and we started to write code. In the summer of 2016, we were still writing code. And in the summer of 2017, we were still writing code. And I felt this intense, incredible pressure to launch both from the team but also from within myself. After all, our last company had started scaled and been acquired in less time. And here we were two years in and we still had not launched. 
But no matter how intensely I felt this pressure, I knew that a launch would go very badly. It would not be the Mark Andreesen story. I did not believe that we had products markets fit. And I couldn't just say this to the team. These are hyper ambitious, super intelligent engineers. They poured their hearts and their souls into the product. It's not what they wanted to hear. I needed a plan. And so I started my search for the holy grail for a way to define products market fit for a metric to measure products fit, and for a methodology to systematically increase product markets fit. I searched high and low. I read everything I could find. I spoke with all the experts. And then I found this guy Sean Ellis. Sean ran early growth at Dropbox, LogMeIn and Eventbrite. He coined the term growth hacker. And as vivid and as compelling as Mark Andreessen's definition is, it is still a lagging indicator. By the time that money is piling up in your checking account and investors are camping outside your house, guess what? You already have products market fit. 
Now what Sean found is a leading indicator, one that is benchmarked and predictive. Simply ask your users this, how would you feel if you could no longer use the product? And then measure the percent that say very disappointed. After benchmarking hundreds of startups, Sean found that the companies that struggled to grow almost always had less than 40%, very disappointed. But the companies that grew the most easily, they almost always had more than 40%. Very disappointed. If more than 40% of your users would be very disappointed without your product, then you have initial products markets fit. This example shows that same question put to 731 Slack users, 51% of whom said they would be very disappointed without Slack. 51 is greater than 40, therefore Slack has products markets fit. Now you might argue you don't need a fancy question to tell you that, but the purpose of this example is to show you just how hard it is to beat this benchmark. 
This metric is more objective than a feeling. It predicts success better than the net promoter score. It is not only the best way to measure products market fit with it, you can build your very own product market fit engine. And this, as I will show you, can automatically generate your roadmap for you. Step one is survey sends these four questions to all of your users. How would you feel if you could no longer use the product? What type of person do you think would most benefit from this product? What is the biggest benefit that you get and how can we improve the product for you? Now, you should wait until your users have had the opportunity to experience the core of your product. This could be two or three transactions, it could be a period of time at Superhuman, or we wait for three weeks before we send this questionnaire. When you get your results, analyze the answers to question number one and they will look something like this. These are the actual results for superhuman from the summer of 2017. As you can see, only 22% of our users would've been very disappointed. Without our product, we did not have products markets fit. 
Now this may seem sad, but I at least had a way of explaining our situation to the team. And moreover, I had a cunning plan for increasing this number, which brings us to step two, which is to segment. Now we want to understand who are the people who really love our product. And for this I like to use the concept of the highest expectation customer, which is an idea I learned from Julie Supan. Julie ran early marketing at Airbnb, Dropbox, and many other great companies. The highest expectation customer is the most discerning person in your target demographic. They will use your product for its greatest benefit and they will help spread the word. And most importantly, others aspire to be like them because they see them to be clever, judicious or insightful. For example, the Dropbox H X C is trusting. They're technically savvy, they want to save time and at the end of the day they simply want to know that Dropbox has their back when it comes to saving their life's work. I'm an example of a Dropbox H X C. I'm sure many of us he here are also the Airbnb. H X C doesn't simply want to travel, they want to belong, they want to experience Paris as if they really live there. And Airbnb rose to its early success by case during to these taste makers and these influencers. 
So how do you create your own H X C? Easy. Go back to the survey results. Take all the people who said they'd be very disappointed without your product. Remember these are the people who love your product and analyze their answers to question number two, who do you think this product will be best for? This turns out to be an incredibly powerful question because happy users will almost always answer it by describing themselves using the words that matter most to them. You can then turn these words into a rich and detailed description of your highest expectation customer. Meet Nicole. She is the superhuman H X C. She's a hardworking professional. She may be an executive, a founder, an investor or a manager. She works really, really hard often into the weekend. Now she feels she's productive but she's self-aware enough to realize she could always do better. Yet she's struggling to find the time to improve. Of course, she does a ton of email. On a typical day she'll read hundreds of emails and on a busy day she may send 80 or more. Now this is the most important part. It's as critical for her to be responsive because if she's not, she could block her team, damage her reputation or miss opportunities. 
She does aim to get to inbox zero and she might do so a few times a week. However, once in a while, perhaps once a year, she'll have to declare email bankruptcy. By the way, if any of you have to do that, let me know we can help. She generally has a growth mindset and this is the good news for us. The bad news for us is like many, she has a fixed mindset about email. She's skeptical that software can help improve her and make her go faster. Once you have your H X C, let's get back to these survey results and assign a persona to each one. And now here's the magic. We're going to take the people who love the products, the people who said they'd be very disappointed without it, in this case, founder, manager, executive and business development. And we're going to use them to narrow the market. In the simplified example, that means we focus on these and we deliberately ignore sales success, engineering and data science. And just by segmenting our product market fit score increases by 10 to 32%. We're not quite at 40% yet, but this is a huge improvement for just two minutes of work. 
And the next step then is to analyze. Now we know who really loves our product. Next we want to answer two questions. Why do people love our product and what holds people back from falling in love with our product? To understand why people love our product, once again we go back to the survey results. We pick the people who said they'd be very disappointed without it, the folks who love it and we analyze their answers to question number three, what is the main benefit to you? Let's take a look at some examples. Processing email is much faster. I get through my inbox in half the time. The app is crazy fast. It makes me feel like an actual superhuman, faster responsiveness navigation. So much faster than Gmail, more efficient with my time. Do email more quickly. Speed aesthetics. I can do anything from the keyboard. I like to take these comments, strip out all the filler words, put it on a word cloud, print it out large, stick it on your wall and then it's as clear as day. People happen to love our product for the speed, for the focus and for the keyboard shortcuts. 
And then we head back to this chart. We want to increase the size of the very disappointed crowd. Well first of all and as painful as is, as it is, we have to ignore the not disappointed crowd. They'll be very vocal, they'll be very loud. But they are so far from loving our product that they are essentially a lost cause. You can build everything that they ask for and they still would not be very disappointed without your products. They're too far away. That leaves the somewhat disappointed crowd. Can we convince some of them to fall in love with our product? The answer is most certainly we can. But the question is, to whom do we listen to? Because for about half of these, you can build everything that they ask for and yet they still won't love your product. And worse, you'll end up with a muddled and an incoherent roadmap. So how do we know who to listen to? Well here's the magic. Take the main benefit from before in our case speed and use that to further segment this segment. You now have the somewhat disappointed people for whom the main benefit did not resonate and the somewhat disappointed people for whom the main benefit did take the former group and politely disregard them. 
'cause you'll build everything that they ask for and they still won't love your products because the main point of your product does not resonate. But the other group, we pay very special attention to those because something and probably something small is holding them back. If you build it, they will fall in love with the product and you can convert to these people who are only somewhat disa, somewhat disappointed without your product into being fanatical evangelists for what you do. 
So how do we figure out what to build? Well we take these set of people and we analyze their answers for question number four, which is how can we improve the products for you? We're now several layers deep in this rabbit hole. So I'm gonna take it from the top just one more time. We did a survey. We figured out who loved the product, we figured out the main benefit of the product. We figured out then who sort of slightly loved the product. We then used the main benefit to segment those people who slightly love the product into the set of people for whom the main benefit resonated and the main benefit. Didn't We then take the set of people for whom the main benefit resonated And we looked at how we can improve the product for them. You can mathematically prove should you be inclined to do so that this will work. You then look at their comments, go through the same process, you can create a word cloud. And back in the summer of 2017, our biggest problem was that we did not have a mobile application. That of course has since been resolved and after then the the insights become less obvious and more interesting. Search integrations, calendaring, attachment handling. 
So now you know what people love. Now you know what objections people have. The time has come to build. Step four is implement. You want to spend half your time doubling down on the things that people love. In our case, that means more speed, more shortcuts, more efficiency and even more refined sense of aesthetics and the other half of your time systematically overcoming the objections to people loving your product. If you only spend time doubling down on what people love, as vision-driven teams and founders are tempted to do, you will never increase the size of the very disappointed segment. But if you only spend your time systematically overcoming objections as data-driven teams are tempted to do, then a competitor will quickly overtake you. And so it is rational to spend half your time on one, half your time on the other. Your roadmap automatically writes itself and in many senses this is optimal. So now we're building things that people love. We're systematically overcoming objections. The next fifth and final step of the engine is to track. There are no silver bullets but this framework will work as you are building things constantly be surveying new users. We survey weekly and then aggregate into monthly and then aggregate again into quarterly. The first quarter. When we started this after segmentation, you'll recall our product product market fit score was 33%. A quarter later it was 57%, 47%. A quarter later it was 56%. And a quarter after that it was 58%. 
58% of our users would be very disappointed without superhuman. 
This products. Market Fit engine really does work. It is not only the best way to measure products market fit, it gives you a methodology to systematically increase products market fit. And if you want it can even automatically generate your roadmap for you. Now with that I hope I've inspired you to at least try this in your own companies and if you do, please let me know. I would be more than happy to help. And with that I think we have time for some questions, but before we do, I would like to ask my co-founder of a vector standup. So you can see him fact stand up just just slightly. There we go. He's even more handsome in real life than in black and white photos. So if you have questions, please find him or me and we'll start here. Yes, 

Guest Question: Thank you for sharing. This is very, Very helpful. Could you talk a little bit about how you might apply this much earlier? So in your case, you had spent about two years developing, you had something to actually deploy to users to start to get feedback. What about in the very early stages when you're ideating on possibilities and trying to determine where the value might actually be before you even have a lot built? Can you, do you have any examples or of how one might use this framework much earlier in the sort of implementation before even getting to implement because you actually had to implement this number four, but you actually had implementation as number zero. 

Rahul: Yes, great question. So the question is what do you do before you have users? How can you tell whether you are making progress? Ideally someone on your team and if you are the product person yourself can be a proxy for the kind of person that you are building for. We deliberately chose a business where at least one of us, in fact several of us more, most importantly me as the person making the product decisions could really feel for who those users are. And before there are numbers, before there are metrics, it comes all down to feeling. I used to be a video game designer back in the day and there's a question if you're a video game designer that you ask every single day, which is, is this fun? And it's a really interesting question 'cause you can get deep into the rabbit hole of what fun is. But the point is that you're asking an emotional question and there is no quantitative answer. And so for superhuman, the question I was asking myself was, does this feel blazingly fast and does it make me feel special as a user? 
And it took us about three or four months to get to the point where there were flashes of brilliance and then the whole thing would fall over and it would be broken for three days and then a week later I'd feel that special moment again for like 10 seconds. And the facts that every now and then I could sporadically feel it gave me hope to keep going. But that will only carry you so far at the time when you can start surveying users, I highly recommend you switch over from a retrospective method to a quantitative method. Yes here. 
Alright, 

Guest Question: Hello. Thank you so much by the way, for this, I learned a lot. I guess my question is, what is the critical mass either of users or of customer, beyond which you believe the accuracy of your model gets more and more accurate In, for example, I am dealing with B two B, so I won't have a critical mass of customer willing to give me feedback. So at which point of time I would say, let's wait for the 10 B customer and I know that this will help you fine tune the method, 

Rahul: Right? So how many people do you need? It turns out that you get statistically directionally accurate numbers with as few as 40 respondents. You don't actually need that many. Now you mentioned B two B. B two B is an interesting case where you have buyers who aren't necessarily the end users. For us, our buyers are the end users. The surveying framework is simpler. If you happen to be running a B two B product, I would suggest running two parallel streams of surveys. One for your end users because in this day and age they of course have to be happy, but also one for the buyers because they will be extracting different value from your product. And you're looking for at least 40 people, 40 respondents in both sets of surveys. Next question. 
No worries. 

Guest Question: Thank you. I'm, I'm blown away because every year at summit, this is my third one, I meet someone, I talk to someone that I didn't even know existed. And no offense to you, I did not know you existed. However, as an incurable entrepreneur, you are now my best friend. 
Okay, going tagging onto his question because as once you've started so many different things, you realize one thing and that is that at the early stages, the sheer energy and infection that you have for your product carries over to the people that you hand it to and they tell you that it's the, it's the greatest thing in the world. And you, you, you go about it with full confidence that you have the product fit only to find out that the person who has not met you and has not been infected with your enthusiasm doesn't have that. So going back to the early stages again, because that's where I find where most of the mistakes are made. How, how can I present this data une emotionally and get a better response? 

Rahul: So the question is how can you present the data unemotionally? I'm not sure why you would want to do that in all. I mean the best presentations are left brained, right brained, the hot and cold. It's everything. It deploy everything you have. You only have one chance to make a company work. Why would you pick half a story? 

Guest Question: It's, it's more just a question from the standpoint of getting accurate data that that a consumer would be getting. They don't get the chance to talk to you. They don't get a chance to do that. So I guess that your answer, what you're saying is that make your marketing the best presentation of yourself is to Test that.

Rahul: Oh maybe I misunderstood. You are talking about presenting to customers. Customers. I see, okay, got it. Understood. I would not present this kind of data to customers. However, there are collateral side effects that you can gather here. One of the most important is the two questions. Who do you think this product is best for and what is the main benefit? There's a rule of thumb marketing which is that the best marketing copy you can possibly have is the copy that your customers write for you. And this happens to be a trick for collecting that on mass. Now you still need a copywriter, you still need a marketer to squeeze it down to really pity sentences. But once you do, you can then use that in your marketing copy. So that's something that we do very much so 

Guest Question: There's a reason we got here. Hold it. Okay, so about a year ago I was experiencing fomo if you're missing out 'cause people were telling me this product is so good and I signed up and nothing happened 'cause you had a waiting list. And then a few weeks ago a friend referred me to theoretically to you or maybe someone works for you. And I was chatting with you on email or I don't know if I actually was chatting with you and, and so I'm curious if you could describe your, your referral process strategy and and why it took so long people to get in the email chain and, and why did I talk to you after referral but not 'cause I actually applied a year ago. It's like how does that all work? What's their reasoning behind all that 

Rahul: Floyd buddy Old Powell? I'm pretty sure it was me. May not be me. Okay, so, so wait lists are a funny old thing. People assume that our wait list, which is quite substantial, there's about 250,000 people on it, is because we're trying to drive fomo, we're trying to drive hypo scarcity. But that actually couldn't be further from the truth. The purpose of the wait list was to pick the people and remains to pick the people who will be most successful with the product. If you're building the kind of product like ours that lives or dies by word of mouth. And another untold secret is that in these days that's every product then it's critical that as many of your users as possible are going to have stellar experiences. Even if that means you say no to 99% of people. Now email as a category has a tremendously large surface area. 
Imagine trying to rewrite word or Excel, it's that complicated. So we can only support an a small number of people to begin with, not from a scalability perspective, but from a feature coverage perspective. We slowly grow that over time as as fast as a startup can do. And then as we have new functionality that makes it accessible to more people on the wait list, then we invite you on. Now there's a twist and there's a twist because we found through data that referrals massively outperform anybody else. If your friend refers you to superhuman, you are more than 15% more likely to fully convert over from whatever you were doing previously to using our product. And there's many reasons for that. There's a social obligation, there's social proof, there's the feeling of getting into this cool thing and that's all great. The thing is we didn't design for that. It just turned out to work that way. 
Can we take some questions from the back? Sure. Cool. 

Guest Question: Sorry. I'm not in the tech business. So I sell weeded and in Canada where you know the regulations, there's, it's not highly differentiated. I can't imagine that anyone would say, I would be devastated if I couldn't buy your pre-roll joints. They'll buy someone else's pre-roll joints. So I've been sitting here because I would love to figure out a way. So you get the question, I mean I guess it's a commodity in some way you're building brand but I don't think anybody, they might love your brand, they might love your product, but they're not gonna say they're like gonna die if they don't have access to your product. 

Rahul: Great question. And you answered your own question, which is brand. If you had the means, why would you buy a Lamborghini over Ferrari or the other way around? They both go about as fast as each other or maybe you care about the environments and you'd buy a Tesla roads to ss. They're all about as good as each other, but very specific reasons to buy each. And so for superhuman we picked a brand orientation and a segment of the market and I believe that you could do that for weed as well. I would go super deep into brand marketing. I Completely agree and I am, but I guess it's applying this idea of surveying and working with and and having. If it wouldn't be 40% saying they would be very disappointed, I guess they would say they're, yeah, okay, take it back. Forget it. 

Guest Question: So along the, hi, thanks for that presentation. I recently went through YC where we were told to do some of your practices and I have a C P G company, so kind of piggybacking off of her, I have hair products about 25 different products and when I ask this question, some of them are answering just based off of the product that they tried. And so how might you alter the survey to include different types of products that people are trying and identifying what it is that they like about your brands or your products? 

Rahul: That is a really fascinating question. 
I think I would have to understand the brand in more detail to coherently answer. If it's the kind of thing where you expect people to pick one product line and stick with it, then I would say they would've used that shampoo or conditioner or whatever it is, at least two or three times. But if on the other hand you think it's more of an ecosystem product where you have to buy into the whole idea that everything in your bathroom is coming from you, then I would only survey that subset of users. And in practice, if I were doing this, I would observe that I actually don't know and I would survey everybody but try different segmentations. So I'd collect all the data and I'd look at the segment of people who have only bought one skew and I would look at the segment of people who have filled their bathroom with stuff from you and if they behave materially differently, you know that your actual business lies in an ecosystem product and not one killer app. 


Guest Question: Excellent presentation. Rahul, really, I also didn't know you existed. So wonderful. You are my new friend because we all struggle about that, that magic product market fit. Just the insight that there is a leading indicator is just brilliant. Brilliant. I wanted to double click on your idea about, you know, wait list. That first of all is super human free. And does that concept of a wait list work for paid products or only for you know, products that are free? 

Rahul: You know, at this point I'm beginning to question myself whether I exist. 
I think wait lists work exceptionally well in either case. A great example of a very popular app right now with a really powerful wait list is Robinhood. You don't have to pay to get in, you pay as you use it, but the wait list mechanics, because the core product is so incredible work fantastically well. The other question was around charging. 
It is actually critical for Superhuman that we charge for any number of different reasons because we charge, and by the way, everybody pays, everybody pays $30 a month. This is a premium product aimed at people for whom email is work and work is email. And for that set of users it actually feels cheap. But compared against the landscape of software as a service, it may appear to be expensive. And one of the main reasons why we charge is to create some degree of commitment. You have to self-identify as somebody who says, yes, I have an email problem and yes, I want to solve that. And yes, I'm going to turn up for an onboarding call. For those of you who don't know, everyone who uses Superhuman also does a 30 minute live video call with one of our wonderful onboarding specialists because we find that the people who make it through this are those who wanted it anyway. And the people who couldn't be bothered to put in a credit card or to turn up for a video call didn't either value their own time or have the growth mindset in this around becoming faster to make the product worthwhile. So I always, always recommend charging because it leads to the creation of much more committed customers. 


Guest Question: Hi, I'm one of those guys that would die if Superhuman stopped existing. Congratulations. First, do you lead growth at Superhuman? And second, do you see any disadvantages for focusing on different segments of the market? You have founders, managers and something else and there's some people who would say to focus just on founders. 

Rahul: I no longer lead growth at Superhuman. We're about 38 people and I'm trying to, we're in the, for those who are going through a similar thing, I've actually learned to learn from people who've done this before. We're in the process of scaling very quickly. And so I'm trying to, you know, build a machine that works. The, my contribution to growth was very early on where we came up with this framework and I said it was always gonna be three things. It was going to be pr, it was going to be virality, and it was going to be content marketing. And that's because in 2014 I analyzed all of the ways that a company could grow and I identified that these are the only three things that would ever work for us. And so I laid down the guardrails and now we have a great growth organization working around around those. 

Guest Question: Can you talk about how that's important, The growth organization? So it's unusual compared to most companies because we do this onboarding process. The question was how is the growth organization put together? We have at this point coming up to 14 onboarding specialists. Remember these are the people who take their time, spend most of their weeks to onboard you onto superhuman. But you need the folks who will feed those people. And so we call those customer acquisition specialists. We have roughly two equivalent full-time people on that. 

Some of you may have interacted with Saha, she's half robot, half saha, but she's very, very good at her job and she feeds the funnel for the onboarding specialists. And then below that you need a team of people who are there to support. Now in a normal organization you would call this customer support, but I've always hated that phrase. I hated the idea that, you know, they were seen as a cost center and not as a profit center. So we in fact call this organization the delight team and everything that they do is to create delight for users. That's actually how, how they're assessed. And so the folks on that team are called delight specialists and that that's sort of the three layers of the growth organization. Now into this, we're about to hire for demand generation for content marketing and then of course for management to tie the whole thing together. 


Guest Question: Hi Rahul. I actually do know who you are. My question for you is that, so you have obviously a SaaS product where it's reoccurring service, but for let's say a construction worker or let's say a design firm or let's say like a tutoring company that is pretty much outcome based. One time you use it, when would you implement the survey? Would it be throughout the process or once they get the end of the product? 

Rahul: I think it comes down to the frequency of the transaction. So for a tutoring service, I'm guessing here it might be once or twice a week, maybe. Would I be right in guessing that? Sure. Let's assume it's okay. Let's assume it's twice a week. So after about two weeks of consistent use, you've, you've had about four transactions to me that would be the right time to ask the child, probably also the parent in a separate survey, assuming they're the one paying for it. Would you be disappointed if you or your kid could no longer use this product? The key criterion is not before the user has experienced the main benefit. Now, if it's a year long construction project, that might be really hard. You might have to wait a long time. But if you're selling tools metaphorical pick axes and shovels, there's probably a time within that period when you can make that ask. 
