This is a transcription of a video titled "The Real Product Market Fit by Michael Seibel"
This transcription is of an interview between 2 people- Y Combinator and Michael Siebel

Here is the transcription. Each new line is the other person talking.
The real product market fit. 

Yes. 

This was a good one. Not that the other ones aren't great. You're great. 

You're great. One, try 

My best. Yeah, yeah. Alright. I often talk to founders who believe they've found product market fit when they haven't. This is a huge problem because they start hiring people increasing, burn and optimizing their product before they've actually discovered what needs to be built. I'm writing this post to help you understand when you've really found product market fit to start Read Mark Andreessen's on product market fit for startups. It has been the single most influential post for me as an entrepreneur and was the first, and, and it was the first time I ever read the term. Here's how he defines the term. The customers are buying the product just as fast as you can make it or usage. Usage is growing just as fast as you can. Add more servers, money from customers is piling up in your company checking account. You're hiring sales and customer support staff as fast as you can. So why do most people think they're there when they're not 

One? It's intellectually convenient too. Okay. I think that a lot of founders are really excited at the prospect of company building and they think that company building is what creates success. And by company building, I mean like hiring employees and having great culture and you know, getting an office and having management and so and so forth. And they are not real with themselves that like the real challenge is to solve the problem. Yeah. And the company building happens for the most part after you figure out how to solve the problem. Not before I hear this term, product market fits so often and I have to tell you like 98% of the time it's used incorrectly. And like what's so frustrating is that like people almost act like it's an undefined or like flexibly defined term and it's like totally not. It's like saying that like, oh yeah. Like green, blue, yellow, we could call of those orange. Yeah. Like it's okay. Like, we'll just call 'em Orange Andre. Like it's different for every company. Yeah, yeah. Exactly. It's like, it's your interpretation of it's like, no it's not. It's is like that's not the case. Like there's a defined term just like make up another term if you wanna mean something else. Yeah. Yeah. So I think the most common way it's mistaken is like, it's weird 'cause it sounds so close, but it's not. It's, I built the thing that customers want. Right. 

And like, what's hilarious is like product market fit is what happens after you've built the things that customers want. It turns out the only way, you know, you've built something the customers want is because they're using it in an explosive and destructive way. And like, people wanna separate these two concepts. It's like so amazing. It's like, so like you can see intellectually why it's just so much easier to be able to look at your thing and say this is what customers want. Right. And not have to really have any customers. Oh yeah. Totally. It's easier to say that. And so man, people really just wanna separate those two things out and it's like, if you are not getting explosive usage, you do not have what customers want. Yeah. Or there aren't that many customers, in which case you don't have a big business. No. And so I think the, the awful reality is like the vast majority of founders, the vast majority of YC founders even never find product market fit ever. I would argue that like more acquisitions than you might know are of companies that did not find product market fit. Once you find product market fit, 

I almost say it's like it's your company to fuck up. Like it's almost like this is gonna work unless you screw it up. Yeah. Whereas like, pre-product market fit, there's all this stuff you need to do to even see if there can be something there. Right. And you really don't know post-product market fit. It's like if you execute, you get there pre-product market fit, you can execute Great. Yeah. And never have anything. And 

And moreover, you can still have customers, you can still have growth. Yep. If you're pre-product market. 

Yes. Yes, yes, yes. It's not like when I go from zero customers to one customer, I've not hit product market. Like, like I think that Mark does a good job of defining it because it's experiential. Right. I think if you tried to define it any other way, people would find loopholes. I mean, they clearly have already found loopholes, but like, it's like, is the growth killing you? Like if, if I were to extract what the meaning of this sentence, like is the growth almost killing you? Yeah. And is it profitable? Like, people always wanna forget the second one, right? Like money is piling up in the check account. That is by 

Definition profit. Yeah. Yeah. Like literally 

There are so many companies who are like, the growth is killing us. Right? And I'm like, oh, oh, show me. Explain. And they're like, and they're scaling negative margins. Exactly. They're saying, Hey Craig, how about you pay 75 cents and I give you a dollar worth of value. That's Yeah. Craig, make that trade 17 times an hour 

Easy. No, I I love that. The PV quote where it's like they figure it out before you, that you're figured out Well 'cause you're just burning VC money or your own money. Yes. Yeah. And 

The customer, the customer's a nos for those types of deals. 

It's like, because if 

You have the problem, like you really understand the, the, the value of the solution. So what's funny to me is that, you know, oftentimes founders will wanna try to reduce this. Like the que I get this question so often. Yeah. It's like, should I optimize for growth? Should I optimize for retention, or should I optimize for profitability? And my answer is always the same. Yes. Like, like what makes you think that building a successful company is a single variable problem? Like, like how could that be the case? Yeah. It's clearly not the case. Clearly not 

The case. Well, especially in the, in the venture paradigm. Yes. 

Yes. Yes. For, for a tech startup. Yes. It's clearly not the case. Like there's clearly multiple variables here. And you know, one of the, the things we try to talk to people, we, we often, if you're charging a customer, we try to talk to you about revenue. Yeah. And the reason why is that like, in many cases, like revenue that you keep is as close as we can get to a single metric. But like, even that is not perfect. Like you really want to know like what's your, what percentage of your revenue are you losing every month? You really want to know like how much does it cost you to get that revenue? Like, you really want to know like, how satisfied are your customers? Like, like you need to know those other stats to really know. And so yeah. Parting market fit, like I wish more comfortable. 

It's like, like I talk about pre-product market fit as just being in the suck. It's just like you're just in the river of crap and you're not enjoying your life. Yeah. Like, and unfortunately I think that you, you every startup, I almost imagine this isn't the case, but I almost imagine that there's like a predetermined amount of time you have to live there until you figure out how to get out. Yeah. And like a lot of founders just wanna cheat and like a lot of founders just like, I want to get out by cheating. Like I just wanna pretend like I'm not in here and like build a nice house or I just wanna like do something that's completely unprofitable so I can pretend to be outta here. And it's just like, you, you, you can't pretend you're way out of product market failure. Like it just does not work. You have to be comfortable. You have to be so passionate about the people you're working with and or the problem that you're solving that you are comfortable failing at it for a while. Did you guys hit it at social cam? Absolutely not. So here's a perfect example. Social cam, over the course of four months, got 16 million downloads, got one eighth of every single person on Facebook to watch at least one video on our platform over the course of three to four months. 

Wouldn't that be like almost the definition of product market fit? We certainly were dying in the traffic. We shut off like half the half the world to not couldn't use the product. 'cause we were like, we can't do it. Absolutely not for our product. One, we had no monetization and we, we probably could have figured out monetization, but that point no monetization. Yeah. Two more importantly, we had horrible retention. Absolutely horrible retention. Like if you came and downloaded the app, the chances that you were using that app 10 days later were basically zero. If you watched a video, the chances that you'd watch it five more videos that week, very low. And like, it was interesting because it was like we had an exit. Yeah. We had tons of growth. We for a while were top five in the app store yet not product market fit. Yeah. I'd even argue, I mean if you look back at Justin tv right? Justin TV by let's say 2000 and, ooh, let's think 10. So we started in 2006 by 2010, lemme make sure I have those dates right. I think that's correct. Yeah. We made $8 million in revenue, 1 million in profit with approximately 30 million monthly viewers on the product. And we were not at product market fit. 

Right. 

Yeah. And so it's like, it's tricky. Yeah. This it is like, it is hard. Like, and and the reason why and and for the Justin TV case was that we didn't have a repeatable engine to create growth like that 300 million monthly uniques. We couldn't make that number go up. And then the second thing was that unfortunately we were, we had tons of copper and content on the site. Yeah. And so it wasn't, we weren't able to reliably monetize that over time. Right. And so it's like, it, it's funny because I can't imagine how many pitches that I gave trying to present that as a good business when like in my heart I knew it wasn't a good business. You know what I mean? Yeah. Like, and like it wasn't until we actually found Twitch and found gamers, did we actually find something that had this like repeatable machine that both spit out more users and more money and retention And like, what was so interesting is that like we'd solved all the technology problems at Justin tv. Oh, 

Well clearly the market does not care what you have behind the hood. No, 

No, no, no. Like we had all the live video streaming. Yeah. We had all the chat, we had everything. Like no, like that was, I mean, let's be clear. Necessary but not sufficient. Yeah. Like we never could have done it without that stuff, but it was not sufficient. Yeah. At all. And like, man, what'd that take? That took, it took six years for us to have a hint that that's what the customer base was. 

Right. 'cause then like the, the suck period with Twitch as game streaming, how long did that go for before? Not very long. Not very long. Okay. 

You know why it was interesting. It didn't go for very long because everything else was already, the table was set. You're 

Kind of in place for the market. 

Yeah. We had people, we had all the technology we needed. We had money 'cause we were running profitably. Ah, okay. So like, it was all like, like all of the, the, the table was set and then bam, the food arrived. Like everyone was seated. Everyone the table was set. Bam. The food arrived. The meal happened. Like we were waiting at the table for like six years. 

Yeah. Dude. Yeah. So we like built the table, we set the table, we had the door open, we sent invites out. No one cared because even at, but like if you started Twitch in 2006 probably wouldn't have worked. 

Like, you know. No, I don't think it would've worked in 2006. I think looking back silly little things matter. One of them was webcams. Yeah. Like webcams went from being something you had to buy extra Yeah. To something that were built into every laptop. Like, and it was like little things like that can change things. I think that though, had we been talking to our users more, we could have gotten there sooner. Like I think we could have gotten there by like 2008, 2009. Hmm. But, you know, we didn't die. That was, you know, yeah. Didn't die. Have another shot. 

That's a big takeaway. Yeah. Yeah. Which is kind of a separate thing. Probably separate essay, but like learning when you should have quit maybe like some people do hold onto things, 

Some people hold onto things. It's funny. Like I I see it two ways. Some people hold onto things. On the flip side though, man, there are still some companies who, like some companies take a long time. Yeah. You know, like there are some peers of ours who like now are really doing well, but just took even longer than we did. And so, man, there, there is a lot, like if you're willing to put in the time and grind it out, like Yeah. Every year you don't not die. Like, like your chances of being successful go up. 

Yeah. And then some companies sell too early and they could have been so cool and then they die within big companies. Yeah. 

That 

Happens too. People are trying to get paid. That happens 

Too.



This is the end of the transcript. Here are some summarized points

you can make it or usage is growing just as fast as you can.

Founders often believe they've found product market fit when they haven't, and start hiring people and increasing, optimizing, and burning their product before they've actually discovered what needs to be built.

Andreessen defines product market fit as when customers are buying the product just as fast as you can make it or usage is growing just as fast as you can.

Most people use the term incorrectly, and believe that it's when you've built the thing that customers want.

The real product is when customers are using your product in an explosive and destructive way.

Founders should optimize for profitability, and understand that building a successful company is not a single variable problem.
