The following writing is a compilation of advice given for improving organization, specifically for the Nation size. The Nation size refers to companies over 10000 employees.


Nation
When your rag-tag tribe has become a massive nation, it takes on a life and momentum of its own. During the early days, the challenge as a founder was figuring out how to maneuver a small organization through a dizzying obstacle course of challenges. Because the organization was nimble and responsive, you could steer a very aggressive and active course. But when you’re leading a nation, you need to be more thoughtful.A nation isn’t a single homogenous group; it’s a federation of many different groups and teams. Often, a scaleup that reaches this stage will have international operations that are geographically and hierarchically separate.At this scale, the key skill a founder needs is the ability to productively integrate with the rest of the organization. Unless you’re the CEO, you can’t just change the direction of the organization by fiat. This collaborative role increases the relative value of soft skills like influencing others, asking good questions, and contributing to broader discussions.At LinkedIn, for example, I try to spend enough time with the executive team so that when challenges arise, I can help influence and contribute to the process of meeting those challenges.
At this stage, your executives need to be leaders, not just managers. They need to be able to run their own organizations which may very well be as large as entire companies at earlier stages of Organizational Scale. The CEO needs to place a great deal of trust in these leaders because she is now four or more levels of hierarchy distant from the frontline employees, and will have a hard time gathering bottom-up data and feedback. 
At the highest levels of scale, companies need to shift from a single “assembly line” for onboarding to multiple parallel processes. Different geographies and different departments will need their own localized onboarding tools and processes, and one of the biggest challenges will be balancing local customization with maintain an overall feeling of being part of a cohesive community.ASK PEOPLE AT PAYPAL, LINKEDIN ABOUT THIS. PayPal customer service—group interviews, group classes, aggressively weeding out the ones who didn’t work. 
By this point, you are siloing most of the company’s information and communications, possibly for secrecy or regulatory reasons, but mostly just to reduce confusion. Simply reading every update email would be more than a full-time job! Communications are largely handled at the regional, business unit, and departmental level, with only the most important items reserved for all-hands communications. 
When a company of this scale undertakes a CEO succession, it is often an integral part of a larger initiative to change the game the company is playing. Success imprints more strongly than failure, and a long period of success tends to inhibit change. Most CEOs who have been super-successful at one particular game have a hard time changing their game. At Microsoft, Steve Ballmer’s sales-oriented approach was so successful for so long that the company had a hard time shifting from packaged software to the cloud. Naming Satya Nadella CEO placed an experienced cloud executive at Microsoft’s helm, and sent a clear signal—internally and externally—that Microsoft was serious about the cloud. A generation earlier, IBM turned to Lou Gerstner to help shift the company’s focus from computers to services. When you realize your company has to change the game it’s playing, you need to consider whether you’re the best person to lead the team in a new direction. One of the amazing things about Mark Zuckerberg as a CEO has been his ability to master multiple games. Zuckerberg (with the assistance of Sheryl Sandberg and an able executive team) has been able to shift Facebook from a desktop website to a native mobile application, and from a company that focused on building everything internally to a company that makes bold, game-changing acquisitions like Instagram, WhatsApp, and Oculus VR. 
At this stage, the primary concerns of the board should be CEO succession and risk management. Remember, risk management isn’t solely about risk reduction; sometimes the right play is to assume intelligent risk, such as a major investment in a potential breakthrough product.The board will continue to serve as a key advisor to the CEO, especially during moments of crisis or challenge.

