The following writing is a compilation of advice given for improving organization, specifically for the Tribe size. The Tribe size refers to companies between 10 and 99 employees.

Tribe
The startup is hiring employees beyond its founders, but its founders are still responsible for the success or failure of the business. Even if you’ve hired a few key engineers or salespeople, the founders are still the key decision-makers. When a salesperson meets with a prospect to close the business, a founder should be in the room to provide support (and to learn from the prospect’s feedback).On a day to day basis, every member of the team—including and especially the founders—does just about anything that is required to ship the product and keep it working once it’s in the hands of the customer. Even the specialists are generalists. For example, Paul English, the founder of Kayak, set up the company’s customer service line to ring his personal cell phone.While it is theoretically possible that the company hires an outside CEO at this phase, this is extremely rare, and when it does occur, that outside CEO is joining so early that she is really a co-founder, not a hired hand.
In the previous phase, you pretty much hired all your employees through your personal network. At this point, however, you’ve run out of smart people you know who are available, even in entrepreneurially rich places like Silicon Valley. Your team may know a ton of great people, but there are so many interesting projects besides yours that most people are already spoken for.Now that you’re growing into tens of employees, you actually need to start setting up real hiring processes. One thing that few startups do (unless they have experienced founders) is to have a rigorous hiring process for people they don’t know. You may think you don’t have time to bother with these niceties, but experienced founders know that it’s useful to put in a little bit of time early on to establish a clear and productive process.Much like the great basketball coach John Wooden began each year by teaching his players how to tie their shoes, you should make sure you clearly lay out the basic steps in the hiring process, including writing a job requisition, sourcing candidates from outside your personal networks, standard interviewing techniques, and reference checking.It’s especially common for startups to underinvest in reference checking. Everyone is in a hurry, and by the time you’ve gotten the team to agree on a particular candidate, you’re both running out of time, and dreading the possibility of having to go back to the start with a new set of candidates. Don’t get lazy. If I had to pick between conducting an interview and conducting a reference check, I’d pick the reference check. After all, the reference has known the candidate for years, and has seen how he behaves under extreme pressure; you’ve met the candidate for 30 minutes, and have seen how he writes on a whiteboard.Make sure that you establish clear process guidelines. At Google, hiring managers would go overboard, sending some candidates to interview with more than a dozen people. Then Google analyzed the data, and discovered that four interviews was enough to achieve an 85% success rate in judging candidates; additional interviews increased the success rate, but by only about 1% per interview. Google ended up establishing a five interview limit. (Five was judged to be a) conservative, and b) a prime number, and thus appealing to computer scientists.)To really get an edge in terms of recruiting, hire a full-time recruiting lead to establish and enforce your process. If hiring is that important, it deserves to be someone’s full-time focus. The recruiting lead isn’t just an administrator; he or she also has to help the organization develop a talent brand. If you’re a consumer company and you’re lucky, you may have a “cool” product that attracts people who want to work on it. It’s more likely, however, that you don’t have the time to wait for your talent brand to develop organically. This effort needs to involve all the different parts of the organization: Engineering should contribute to open source projects, Marketing should try to snag conference speaking engagements and press coverage, and so on. 
You typically don’t make a change in the transition from Household to Tribe because the demands of management don’t change that much. But as you shift from being a Tribe to a Village, and during any later shifts, CEO succession becomes something you need to consider.The Tribe/Village transition is actually one of the best times to bring in a CEO; you’re about to massively scale up the company, and you can then build the company around the CEO. For LinkedIn, we brought in Dan Nye at about 40-50 employees. Dan was and is an excellent executive, and helped us grow LinkedIn from a small organization into a real company.
At this stage, the startup has likely raised money, which means that the board will consist of the founders and one or two investors. The board should have three to seven members, preferably towards the lower end. The company’s main challenge is to get the product to market so it can prove that it has a valuable, scalable business. Therefore, the key criteria for selecting board members is whether or not they have relevant skills (product, sales, marketing, etc.) to help the company get the product to market.You probably don’t have independent board members. The issue is that for most independent board members, your company isn’t a full-time job. For venture capitalists, growing startups is their full-time job. At modern venture capital firms, the general partners tend to have been successful founders and executives, not financiers. Because they’ve done it before, they can help you scale the blitzscaling ladder.There are exceptions of course; if you have a really high-quality independent board member who brings a great network, and has great relationships with the founders and investors, that can be a huge value-add. Having a “brand” isn’t enough to justify inclusion; the board needs to be a working board (and you can always add a “celebrity” board member at a later phase if that becomes important).Ideally, you’re in touch with your investors every week (you can’t move quickly enough if you wait for monthly board meetings), and make sure they have a map in their head of the challenges facing the company and what needs to happen to address them.Since you don’t have much to defend, the focus needs to be on playing offense. As we’ve noted, the default result of a startup is failure; success is like throwing yourself off a cliff and successfully assembling an airplane on the way down. It sure helps to have board members who can help build the wings and propellers.Corporate governance is largely a secondary consideration, but the board still has to pay attention to key questions like, “How much cash is in the bank?” and “What are the long-term obligations we’re assuming?”
At this stage, it’s still possible for every employee to know each other, and to have a sense of what each person is working on. Yet the number of communication pairs is so great that you have to start instituting formal communications processes, like all-hands meetings. Even at 20 or 30 employees, it’s possible to hold a daily standup meeting to share information and ask the team for answers or help. As the company grows into the upper reaches of this stage, even those meetings become unwieldy, and it may be necessary to leverage online tools like wikis or project management software to give employees a more scalable way to see what a particular other employee is working on. The leaders of the company should also start using a formal “push” communications channel to inform the rest of the company about key issues and decisions, such as holding a weekly company meeting where the CEO and/or department heads give formal presentations.
As the company grows, it becomes impossible to have every employee interview every candidate. Even if you magically had the time available, putting candidates through such an arduous process would drive away nearly everyone you wanted to hire. As a result, individual managers and groups within the company are probably hiring people without a lot of cross-checking. This makes onboarding more of a challenge, since you’re now introducing someone that is a virtual stranger to the rest of the tribe.One solution is to be willing to fire people quickly if they don’t gel with the rest of the team. Some companies adopt this approach because it allows them to save time on the recruiting and onboarding processes. But this kind of approach has significant implications for the kind of culture the organization can have. Quick-to-hire, quick-to-fire might work fine for a hard-driving, individualistic culture, but it would rapidly destroy a culture that emphasized teamwork and collaboration. Most organizations are better off hiring carefully and onboarding candidates thoughtfully.The hiring manager needs to take charge of the onboarding process, even if it is informal. That manager should educate the new hire on how the company works, and make introductions to key people to jumpstart the relationships that will become necessary later on. 
As the company grows, it becomes impossible to have every employee interview every candidate. Even if you magically had the time available, putting candidates through such an arduous process would drive away nearly everyone you wanted to hire. As a result, individual managers and groups within the company are probably hiring people without a lot of cross-checking. This makes onboarding more of a challenge, since you’re now introducing someone that is a virtual stranger to the rest of the tribe.One solution is to be willing to fire people quickly if they don’t gel with the rest of the team. Some companies adopt this approach because it allows them to save time on the recruiting and onboarding processes. But this kind of approach has significant implications for the kind of culture the organization can have. Quick-to-hire, quick-to-fire might work fine for a hard-driving, individualistic culture, but it would rapidly destroy a culture that emphasized teamwork and collaboration. Most organizations are better off hiring carefully and onboarding candidates thoughtfully.The hiring manager needs to take charge of the onboarding process, even if it is informal. That manager should educate the new hire on how the company works, and make introductions to key people to jumpstart the relationships that will become necessary later on. 
At this stage, you should hire people who can lead small- and medium-sized teams, but are also doers. The organization is still too small to support managers who don’t also serve as important individual contributors.When you hire a manager at this phase, it’s more like hiring another co-founder than a professional manager. If the manager isn’t a co-founder, he or she is directly supporting a founder.Given the size, stage, and fragility of the organization, managers need a damn good reason to leave. In the language of our previous book, “The Alliance,” managers have committed to a tour of duty. Breaking that tour of duty is tells you something about their essential character and is definitely a black mark on their record.During the latter portions of this stage, you have probably hired people who are really good managers, but you probably haven’t hired an executive yet.
