The following writing is a compilation of advice given for improving organization, specifically for the Family size. The family size refers to companies between 1 and 10 employees.

Family
"During this phase, the founders *are* the company. Their role is simple: To do whatever is necessary to assemble the resources the company needs to go from zero to one. This includes their own specific skills and experiences.In the ideal scenario, the founding team already has all the necessary capabilities to launch the company, from the technical ability to build a prototype, the product chops to define a minimum viable product, and the sales and marketing skills to start telling and selling. This is one of the reasons why solo founders are often considered a red flag by investors—it is nearly impossible for one man or woman to meet all those requirements at a world-class level.Yet the world is seldom ideal, which means that one of the key roles of the founders is to draw upon their personal networks to a) fake it as best they can, and b) get help from people with complementary skills. These could be spouses, old friends, relatives—people who believe in the founders enough to contribute without much expectation of reward. This usually doesn’t mean hiring people; at this phase, you probably can’t convince anyone good enough to come on full time. Assembling the relevant networks around the company is probably the only way to get the capital, talent, customers, and advice needed to scale.The question we like to ask is, “Who are the people without whom you wouldn’t start this company?” If someone doesn’t make that list, he or she shouldn’t be a founder. This doesn’t mean that all the founders are equal, but it does mean that they are all necessary.At this phase, it’s also critical to make sure that the founders are fully committed. Losing a founder at this stage is usually fatal to the business. It simply doesn’t have the margin of safety to survive such a blow. (Note that as the founding team is forming, it’s not uncommon for someone who was originally “in” to decide to opt out; this isn’t the same as losing a founder once the startup effort is truly underway. It’s an annulment, not a divorce.) The founders should be able to collectively say, “We will stay with this startup as long as we can still help the business launch a successful product and become an ongoing institution.” This is what we termed a Foundational Tour of Duty in our previous book, The Alliance. A Foundational Tour of Duty occurs when a company and an individual both agree that the individual is a permanent part of the organization. These Foundational individuals provide continuity and institutional memory, and are also key standard-bearers for the company culture. In the early phases, these Foundational employees are the founders, but as the company grows, other key member of the team can achieve this status.If, in a later Phase, the business no longer needs a particular founder, you should try to find a different role in which the founder can still contribute, but you should also respect that founder’s decision if he or she wants to move on. At Twitter, for example, founders like Ev Williams and Biz Stone are busy working on new projects like startups and best-selling books. As with any tour of duty, overriding circumstances can arise, such as health problems (for example, Paul Allen left Microsoft when he was diagnosed with cancer) or family emergencies. Founders should stay as long as they can; even in later stages, the departure of a founder is always a big deal. When you’re hiring employees, they’re either part of your founding team (and have founder skills or the ability to develop them) or they are probably temporary. But as you grow into the next phase of blitzscaling, hiring will become critical.[LINKEDIN/PAYPAL STORY]"
At this phase, the role of the CEO is to focus on the product strategy. The startup is trying to exploit a market opportunity. This opportunity might have been created by technological change, a failure on the part of the incumbents to adapt, or by pure inspiration. To exploit that opportunity, the critical strategy is to validate the problem, prove that your solution works, and move as quickly as possible. FOR EXAMPLE… You can take more risk at this phase than later on, because you have so little to lose. Be bold, because the default state of any startup is failure; you have to positively achieve success.
Frequently, founders are told to focus on building a world-class team. As a result, they seek out experts and specialists. The problem is, specialists tend to be far better suited to mature businesses than startups. In a large company, the organization has the scale to leverage very specific talents, and the stability of the business means that the fact that the narrow focus of a specialist makes him less adaptable to change doesn’t typically matter.In fact, generalists play an important role, even in large companies, but early-stage startups should focus almost entirely on hiring generalists. This doesn’t mean hiring people who lack specific skills or advanced education. “Generalist” isn’t a description of a person’s skills; it’s a description of their capabilities.Hiring generalists means hiring people who can change directions, refactor priorities, learn something new, and adapt quickly to whatever curveballs the universe throws at them, even if they are hired in part for a specific set of skills like developing Android applications. Part of being a generalist means being aware that trying something new inherently implies making mistakes, and having the resilience to recover rapidly and even more important, learn from those mistakes.It’s also usually important to have one or more people who are explicitly generalists. The key is to look for a history of entrepreneurial activity, even if that activity is seemingly irrelevant. For example, our friend John Lilly (current Greylock partner, former CEO of Mozilla) executed a turnaround of an eating club (student-run dining hall) when he was a Stanford undergraduate. You might not need his knowledge of how to evaluate chefs, but his experience demonstrates that he is a self-starter who can figure out how to get something done, even when starting from scratch.A generalist is someone who can do everything from finding a new office to assisting with financing to running partnership negotiations, all the while managing payroll and taking out the trash. A jack of all trades is actually a master of adaptability. At LinkedIn, both Matt Cohler and Lee Hower were early employees that we hired as generalists, who helped us scale rapidly. (Incidentally, both of them are now venture capitalists.) [EXAMPLE: HOW THEY CONTRIBUTED TO BLITZSCALING]When you have 10 or fewer people in the organization, everyone has to be a generalist.Another frequent piece of bad advice for Family-stage startups occurs when well-meaning people tell you to hire employees who can scale with the company. That’s simply wrong. Hiring individual contributors who are great at what they do, but aren’t going to scale into senior roles when the company grows is absolutely fine *if* they’re great at what they do now, what we referred to in our book The Alliance as a Tour of Duty.Your responsibility as a leader and manager is to figure out what their path within the organization is likely to be as it grows so that you can set accurate expectations for the future. Hopefully, you can chart a course that allows the employee to progress in his career, but even if there isn’t a clear path forward, being honest with the employee about your expectations is vital. It’s not that founders intend to make false promises to employees, but a lack of clarity and detail often results in incorrect assumptions about future roles. When those expectations are dashed, the result is usually a messy separation than harms both company and employee. In contrast, if the expectations are clear from the start, the employee can serve an extremely productive tour of duty that benefits both the company and the employee, and afterwards, the employee can be a valued member of the company’s corporate alumni network.Even if you wanted to, you’re not going to be able to hire people for permanent roles. The team you have now won’t all be with you when you have 10,000+ employees. The senior management team you have now won’t be the same that’s around you when you ring the NYSE bell at your IPO. At LinkedIn, only two of the original 10 employees remain at the company, though the others are enthusiastic and supportive alumni (including me!).Moreover, most successful large-company executives are worse than useless at this stage because their instincts pull them in precisely the wrong direction. You don’t want to prematurely hire people who are best-suited to the later stages. As the company grows, you’ll be coaching some current employees to take on bigger roles, bringing in some new people, and regularly reconfiguring the organization.Of course, you need some people who will scale and stick around to provide continuity and institutional memory, serving what we refer to as a Foundational tour of duty. Usually, the founders will fill this role. Just as employees need to have the resilience to accept a certain error rate, the organization needs to accept that not every hire is going to work out. While hiring mistakes are very expensive, and you try to be as certain as possible, you have to presume that you won’t have a 100% hit rate. Not only are you hiring fast, the organization itself is changing so quickly that even someone who is a good fit today may be a bad fit in six months. Don’t be afraid to admit when you’ve made a mistake, or when you need to make a change. If you’ve been honest and open about what the organization needs, and set realistic expectations, you’ll be able to make changes—even painful ones—without de-railing your blitzscaling efforts.At this stage, you’re also starting to establish your culture. As I mentioned, only 2 of the original 10 employees are still at LinkedIn, but the culture that those 10 employees helped build remains in effect. It has evolved of course, but it has stayed on the general track we set up over a decade ago. LinkedIn has a non-hierarchical culture which believes in individual economic empowerment through self-determination. We value technical excellence, but also adhere to Bob Sutton’s “No Asshole Rule.” Some have argued that our culture is too conservative, but this simply illustrates the fact that successful cultures make specific tradeoffs with which others disagree.Culture comes down to how the founders and founding team treat each other, and whom you choose to hire. Live up to your values, and choose wisely, and you’ll build a lasting culture. You’re not bothering to do team-building exercises and trust falls. Leave those for big companies. The startup itself is a trust fall—if the team members don’t have each other’s backs, the startup is doomed to fail. Instead of exercises, what you are doing is spending a bunch of time together—including evenings, weekends, and holidays—solving problems, and the culture will naturally arise from and be reinforced by the ways you interact with each other during that process. 
At this stage, you should hire people who are comfortable crossing uneven ground in the fog. These people feel a paranoid urgency, have the ability to learn whatever is necessary, and are open to change and pivoting. Like a founder, they are adaptable. Given the small size of the team, it’s also important that they be willing to take on any task, no matter how lacking in prestige, as long as it is important. The best way to find these people is to look for evidence of entrepreneurial spirit in what they’ve done, whether in the business world or elsewhere.Any managers you hire at this point are on Transformational tours of duty (it is hard to make a lifetime commitment to an organization that barely even exists), but no one is thinking about leaving the company unless it fails or they lose faith in its fundamental investment thesis.It’s a mistake to be looking for executive experience; focus on critical skills and talents. Things like product-market fit should be part of the founding team, but other things like design and engineering might be hired in at this point.Don’t hire “resumes”; hiring based on how someone looks on paper is counterproductive. Experience at brand-name companies often doesn’t teach you the right lessons on how to grow a no-name startup. Instead, hire the best athlete available. [PAYPAL OR LINKEDIN EXAMPLE? Sarah Imbach?]The one exception to this prohibition on premature executive hiring is when you’re hiring people you’ve worked with before. You don’t need to guess whether they have startup skills—you know from personal experience. Hiring people whose work you know well is especially useful for enterprise companies, where you generally have a better idea of what skills will be needed to win in the marketplace.Generally, you should be pretty draconian about the character of those you hire and retain. You are setting the company culture during this phase and the next, so you should have a very high bar for these early hires. At LinkedIn, for example, we always tried to follow what Stanford’s Bob Sutton dubbed, “The No-Asshole Rule.” When Brian Chesky and Joe Gebbia were looking for Airbnb’s first employee, they spent several months and interviewed hundreds of people before hiring Nick Grandy.That being said, you can’t always be quite so strict on qualifications. The conventional wisdom of Silicon Valley is that you should only hire A players. But when you’re at this phase (i.e. you are an unknown startup without any funding), B+ is often the best you can do. Given all you need to accomplish in a hurry, you can’t afford to wait around for an A. Sometimes the people you hire will surprise you and rise to the occasion, but you also have to be ready to transition in a respectful way. The key to building and maintaining an alliance with these hires is to be honest and to set clear expectations for their specific tour of duty.
In this stage, onboarding is typically informal and ad hoc. Bringing in a new person is like introducing a new boyfriend or girlfriend; you have the new guy or gal over for a family dinner so that everyone can get to know them. Everyone’s probably a little nervous, but if you’ve chosen well, the rest of the family clicks with the new person, and pretty soon, you’re giving them the keys to the house.This informal process works because the team is still small enough for every member to have a personal relationship with every other member of the team. You’re also so busy, that taking the time to create a formal onboarding process is as remote a possibility as not checking your email after 5 PM.If the family rejects the new member, as painful as it might be, you probably need to move on. The team is so lean that every member has to be a full member of the family. 
Internal communications are easy when you’re in the Family stage. Almost every member of the team is under the same roof, and may very well be in the same room. When you have a question or need feedback, you can simply stand up from your chair (or balancing ball…or treadmill desk….) and say, “Hey! Does anyone know…?”This “groundhog” communication technique is organic, quick, and effective. Everyone is still working on the same initiative, so the interruption is likely productive (or if necessary, easily ignored by wearing headphones). The biggest challenge you likely face is keeping the rare virtual employee in the loop. Because it is so easy for the rest of the team to communicate with each other, you have to make the effort to constantly communicate with any remote team members to keep them on the same basis as the rest of the team. This is where communications tools like Slack can be so helpful, by providing a medium where all the team members are participating on the same terms, and by allow asynchronous communication, which helps overcome time zone differences. Another approach some companies take is to set up a 24/7 videoconference using tools like Skype or Google Hangouts to simulate being in the same room.At this stage, you probably don’t even have an “All” email alias, since so many email threads already have every employee in the address line! 
When CEO succession occurs this early, you’re always bringing in a co-founder. For example, when Jerry Yang and Dave Filo hired Tim Koogle to run Yahoo!, they considered him as a co-founder. 
At this stage, the board is probably just the founders, with perhaps a key advisor. Usually, you shouldn’t lock into a board here, because boards are harder to upgrade than other talent. Here, you actually should wait for “A” players.Your advisors should be founders and venture capitalists; at this stage, the advice of big company executives is almost, but not quite, completely irrelevant. 
