The following writing is a compilation of advice given for improving Strategy, specifically for the Family size. The family size refers to companies between 1 and 10 employees.

Family
As an early-stage startup, your fundamental competitive advantage is speed. That’s why it’s so important to blitzscale. You should be looking for ways to use that speed as a weapon. Other advantages including being able to take on a lot of risk (because you don’t have anything to lose) and being willing to go where other people aren’t (because you can survive in very marginal niches).A frequent mistake that investors make when evaluating a company is to ask, “What if Google did this?” The truth about any nation is that it can only handle about 3-7 priorities. If your tiny startup is in the way of one of those priorities, you're going to get steamrolled. But if you're not in the way, their efforts will be unfocused, intermittent, and ineffectual.
One of the common mistakes that founders make is to focus on the threat posed by established players like Google and Facebook. After all, if your goal is to achieve their level of success, don’t you need to beat them? In reality, it’s rare that these established players are the relevant competition and threats to your startup. Unless you’re trying to compete with them directly on their core business (search for Google, desktop OS for Microsoft, social network for Facebook, auction marketplace for eBay and so on), they’re not going to bother paying attention to you. Even if the giant has a small group that competes with your product, they’ll never get tier-1 attention from senior management, which is rightly concerned with the core business. For example, the fact that Uber might go into deliveries doesn’t mean that you should be dissuaded from pursuing that opportunity, because Uber is going to be busy scaling its passenger business for the next few years.Your actual competition consists of other startups. And the basis of that competition is speed—you are all trying to become the first to reach scale and reap the first scaler advantage. At this stage, you’re all simply racing to launch your products.
Startup strategy. Financing is primary because if you run out of money, you’re dead. This doesn’t mean raising money—you can bootstrap, max out credit cards, etc. Part of the viability of your financing strategy is how will competitors approach the same challenge. Even if your competitors are pursuing inferior strategy, if they raise more money, their higher capital approach may disrupt your space.The kind of capital you have access to changes as the business evolves.• Personal savings and credit• Friends and family• Angel investors• Venture Capitalo Early stageo Growth• Banks• Public MarketsTend to go to the highest level of the capital stack you can get, with the proviso that you never have to go backwards in the stack. You don’t want to take VC money, then have to go back to angels. (the extreme version of VC down round).Exceptions: Go lower if it’s faster.In Silicon Valley, start with an angel round; can be microVC or VC. VCs can help with customers, recruiting, additional financing, etc. If you have the opportunity to get to a top tier or second-tier VC, you’ll want to go to VC (though you may got to great Angels to get to top-tier VC).In other markets, where capital is less plentiful, may need to focus on cash flow, since banks won’t lend you money without understanding your cash flow. They are willing to provide working capital to accelerate your growth, not risk capital.Correlation and causation: Venture capital. You can’t get VC returns without blitzscaling companies. It’s tough to blitzscale companies without access to VC. Hence SV and China.Start raising at least 6 months out. Raise money when you can, not necessarily when you need it. Need to finance both your go-to-market strategy and your organizational growth strategy. Cash burn and financing strategy are inextricably interlinked.Important to know when you get to revenue. Revenue helps cash flow, but it also helps you move up the financing stack. While investors in SV and China might be willing to invest heavily in pre-revenue companies, this is rarely the case elsewhere. This willingness to finance growth without revenue allows companies to tackle unique and emerging spaces and models.Revenue Cash flow Traditional sources of capital. Revenue strategy and financing strategy are not the same thing. Money in (revenue, fundraising), money out (growth, investment).The vast majority of startups begin with a negative burn rate, and assume they’ll be able to pull up before they hit the ground. Rarely profitable from Day 1.Not just strictly running out of money; everyone is taking a leap of faith that you’ll be able to pull out of the dive. Once you lose their confidence (employees, investors, users, customers, founders), that becomes a tailspin that’s nearly impossible to pull out of. That collective confidence is one of the reasons you fundraise before you need it; does waiting until the last minute create a crisis of confidence, which is a self-fulfilling prophecy?The dilemma you always have with investors is should they just wait and see more data (and thus less risk). This is actually the default position. To overcome it, the investors either have to believe that the price will go up later—but this doesn’t exert much pressure. You need a forcing function to close a round (and not because you’re running out of money—that tells investors that if they wait, they’ll get a better deal…and once they do, they lose confidence in the business). The art is in how to you pull out fast and hard if you even see a hint of a death spiral (hence the 6 month minimum). Exception: The market for your company is so hot that everyone is locked in a bidding war to get in. Competitive investing process; if I move now, I can win the deal.Ultimately, the strength of a venture firm is based on the strength of its portfolio. Entrepreneurs say, “That’s the kind of company I want to be.” Top-tier firms do everything they can to take advantage of this—argue for lower valuation because they add more value. But the converse is that they believe that they have better decision-making talent, and are more willing to go in early.E.g. Amazon
With a few rare exceptions such as Instagram, globalization should not be a major consideration at this point.

