The following writing is a compilation of advice given for improving Strategy, specifically for the City size. The City size refers to companies between 1000 and 9999 employees.

City
At this stage, establishing a new competitive edge tends to be very difficult. Instead, you tend to focus on strengthening your existing market position. There are several best practices for doing so.First, you can try to establish a standard. One of the standard Silicon Valley plays is to move from an app to a platform so that you can attract people to build on and to your platform. Salesforce.com’s Force.com ecosystem is a great example of this.Second, you can offer a more complete solution, and try to outflank the competition. I like to say that "Both players are holding glasses of water, and are trying to tip over the other person's glass.” Can I give away your core product for free and still make money on my core product?Interestingly, this is one aspect of blitzscaling where China and Silicon Valley differ. In China, companies will put teams on anything that has traction; in Silicon Valley, talent is so precious and you have so many other offensive plays that you can't afford to fast-follow. This means that in a very real sense, China is even more competitive than Silicon Valley, though I expect that over time China will evolve to become more like Silicon Valley in this respect.
You’re still competing with your peers, but now you have to think about pursuing strategic objectives that don’t produce tactical results. You’re at a scope where you can decide to let one business subsidize another. For example, Google Docs is a direct assault on Microsoft Office; it doesn’t have to make money, it just has to disrupt Microsoft’s business to have major strategic value.You also need to start paying attention to the early-stage startups that might be exploiting new platforms and technologies. You’re used to disrupting others, but now that you have “made it,” you may be vulnerable to disruption from below. You have a target on your back. But you also have to show good judgment, because any successful company attracts dozens of wannabe disruptors. Even at this stage, you don’t have the resources to react to all of them. You need to decide which ones really matter. For example, at LinkedIn, we’ve repeatedly seen the market get excited about video resumes. Thus far, we’ve chosen not to respond because we don’t think that video is a critical differentiator. In contrast, we have given users a lot more control over graphics and formatting, because these affect our users’ willingness to use LinkedIn as the default hub of their professional reputation. In fact, we keep a list of startups that want to be “the next LinkedIn,” and we’re working hard to make sure that the next LinkedIn is LinkedIn.When you respond to a major threat, you can build it yourself (Google Instant; WHAT WAS THE THREAT), buy a market leader (WhatsApp, which allowed Facebook to maintain a leadership in messaging), or buy a smaller player (Android; this allowed Google to hedge against Apple using its control of iOS to divert mobile search traffic to other search engines). Each of these is a valid strategy; the test of efficacy is whether they blunt the threat.
Growth VCs, Banks, Mezzanine, Public Markets
Whatever your business is, if you’re not expanding globally, you’re value is capped (unless you’re planning to do acquisitions). To be truly valuable, you have to be operating globally.At LinkedIn, we take a number of different approaches. We have different globalization heads for our business and consumer products, we have set up a joint venture in China to tackle that strategic market, and we’ve started building up a product organization in Dublin, Ireland to serve Europe.When someone sees your business succeeding, someone will create a local variant. And these local variants won’t be content with their home market; they will also seek global growth (at your expense). For example, Rocket Internet in Germany has cloned Uber (EasyTaxi), Airbnb (Wimdu), Square (Payleven), Zappos (Zalando) and many more (they’ve launched over 100 companies). LinkedIn had at least ten competitors in other geographies, and even today, a number of these are still present in their local geographies.When you’re an entrepreneur, planning on creating a business, you won’t start off thinking about globalization and internationalization, but if you’re going to end up as a world-changing scaleup, you’re going to have to deal with it. You don’t want to put the cart before the horse, but it is easier to assemble the cart before you reach a full gallop.
