The following writing is a compilation of blog posts and literature that are meant to be used as advice for Strategy when blitzscaling. They are applicable to all stages of a firm, including family, tribe, village, city, and nation.

All Stages
My old friend Peter Thiel once wrote an essay for the Wall Street Journal titled, “Competition Is for Losers.” Entrepreneurs frequently make the mistake of picking highly competitive markets. I suspect that they fall into this trap because of their background—many entrepreneurs come from elite universities where they succeeded by outcompeting a bunch of other smart people on a level playing field.This may be commendable in the academic world, but this is a bad, brittle strategy for blitzscaling. It’s far better to pick a market where you face no competition (either people don’t understand the market, or you’re a contrarian who defies the conventional wisdom and happens to be right) or more likely, bad competition.You may be incredibly smart and insightful, but among the billions of people in the world, there are probably hundreds of thousands with comparable skills and capabilities. Don’t compete with them head on; find a valuable opportunity space they’ve overlooked. Often, this comes from a willingness to take risks that others fear, but which you realize are overblown.When Richard Branson started Virgin Atlantic, he was entering a known and valuable market with bad competition (e.g. other airlines!). Branson’s team didn’t focus on outdoing the airlines on their own turf (landing slots and frequent flights). Instead, they focused on making the flying experience delightful and unique—a field of competition where the competition was demonstrably bad.In the technology startup world, the most important reason there are valuable markets with bad competition is disruptive innovation. When disruptive innovation occurs, the existing incumbents can’t bring themselves to disrupt themselves. Back in the dot com book, it’s not as if traditional media companies were unaware of the Internet—in fact, they were busy printing cover stories about it! Rather, they weren’t willing or able to make the painful sacrifices necessary to take advantage of the phenomenon they were covering.Another old friend, Elon Musk, has built two incredible companies, Tesla and SpaceX. It staggers belief that one entrepreneur could be successful in two highly sophisticated hardware startups at the same time! Part of this is the Elon is truly a genius. But his success was aided by the fact that both of his companies faced bad competition. Tesla’s competition, General Motors, had killed its own pioneering electric car (the EV1), and didn’t recognize how the software running the cars was going to become as important as the traditional automotive hardware of chassis and powertrains. SpaceX’s competition, the big defense contractors like Lockheed Martin, had locked up the market with government contracts, and had stopped innovating. These competitors were bigger and better-financed than Elon’s startups, but they nonetheless represented a poor competitive set.Peter Thiel and I encountered a similar situation at PayPal. Our competitors were the big banks, including Wells Fargo, who dwarfed our branding and financing. But big banks are staid, risk-averse institutions, especially when it comes to financial regulations. In contrast, PayPal could take risks they couldn’t. We were able to open up our platform, despite the possibility of fraud. Our team figured out how to reduce and manage the fraud, and built a huge business while Wells Fargo’s BillPoint stayed closed and faded away.When you have dominated your competition, your company may be described as having a monopoly. The term has developed highly negative connotations, conjuring up images of a bullying robber baron using any means possible—legal or illegal—to squash potential competitors. Restraint of trade is rightly illegal. But this distaste for monopolies shouldn’t lead us to conclude that dominant competitors need to be penalized.The key distinction between legitimate and illegitimate competition is whether the dominant player actually blocks potential challengers from the market. You don’t have to make it easy for challengers to copy your playbook, but you have every right to fiercely compete and win. The reason this is important is a healthy society leaves room for challenges to the status quo. Both society and individual customers benefit from the choice. It’s not surprising that the consumers in markets where Google offers Google Fiber tend to receive better prices and performance from incumbent ISPs. Finally, innovation and the emergence of new markets renders even the strongest monopoly moot. Microsoft had one of the strongest monopolies in history on desktop software, but it couldn’t block the rise of iOS and Android on mobile phones.
It’s said that CEOs sleep like babies—they wake up every two hours, crying. It’s the job of the CEO to worry about whatever the rest of the organization can’t solve. But the list of potential worries is limitless; you simply can’t afford to worry about them all. To make matters worth, the major threats to your company change as it climbs the blitzscaling ladder.
In the technology industry, there is often an emphasis on the value of building a “platform company.” A platform company offers a technology infrastructure that other companies can use to build their own applications and products. buIt is certainly true that many of the most valuable companies control key platforms, such as Microsoft and Windows, Apple and iOS, and Google and Android. Yet the emphasis on technology is wrong; the key challenge is not building a technology platform. Rather, it is creating an ecosystem (including technology, but also business and community) where many people contrite value.Ecosystem development is an important blitzscaling strategy because it allows you to build capabilities that go for beyond your organizational boundaries. The dense connections of the Networked Age have only increased the value of ecosystem development. In his seminal paper, “The Nature of the Firm,” Nobel-prizewinning economist Ronald Coase noted that firms exist because the cost of completing a task within the firm is less than the transaction cost of outsourcing the task on the open market. Thus, when it is costly to coordinate external activity, firms tend to grow, and when it is cheap, they tend to shrink. Thanks to the Internet and smartphones, coordinating external activity is cheaper than ever before. Companies like Uber and Lyft leverage this trend to provide reliable car service without owning cars or employing drivers. This may very well become the standard way of growing a highly valuable organization. This is why the majority of Reid’s investments tend to be in networks, marketplaces, and platforms.Both consumer and enterprise companies can develop valuable ecosystems that leverage other people’s time and money. Enterprise companies like Microsoft create and rely on distribution and developer networks to sell and serve their products; marketplaces like eBay and Alibaba both empower and monetize armies of sellers; open source projects rally massive numbers of developers to create valuable software. While each of these ecosystems look very different, all allow their developers to recruit a lot of people who are outside their org chart to add value to the ecosystem as a whole.The goal of ecosystem developers is to create the highest-leverage organization. While metrics like revenue per employee are useful indicators, a 10,000 person company that generates $250,000 per employee has much greater market power and impact than a 10-person company that generates $1 million per employee. Further, building an ecosystem has different encumbrances than building a large number of employees. Consider ecosystem participants like open-source developers and eBay sellers. These participants don’t show up on your payroll, but they do create obligations, whether in terms of community governance or maintaining backwards compatibility of your platform. In turn, these obligations can generate real costs.People tend to think that being the center of an ecosystem is valuable because the majority of the value accrues to the platform creator. Yet all the participants have to benefit, because participation is voluntary. You have to create enough value for the participants. Sometimes, this value is economic, as is the case with restaurant franchises. Other times, this value is non-monetary, as is the case with open source developers who contribute to projects to build their reputations, not their bankrolls. Fortunately, this is not a zero-sum game; working together creates a bigger pie, which enables the smart ecosystem developer to provide plenty of value to participants AND claim a healthy share for itself. One fun example is how Facebook called on its members to help translate its service into different languages. Facebook got to extend the reach of its product, while the members got to use Facebook in their native language (with the possible exception of those who helped translate Facebook into Klingon).
The bottom layer is finance. “Don’t run out of money.” In Silicon Valley, people think this means raising a pile from VCs, but not necessarily. GoPro.Another part of finance is the competitive implications. If you’re bootstrapping and your archrival has raised $30 million, they’re going to suck up all the oxygen even if they fail.CEO doesn’t have to be the finance person, but does have to understand finance.The next most fundamental is how do you get your product into the hands of users and customers? Very few customers do thorough analysis to find the best products. You have to do it for them. This is true for hardware, services, and software. Consumer Internet: SV understands the patterns for getting to millions of users well.Typical entrepreneur focuses on building a killer product or service. But you still need to be solid on the GTM plan. Getting product into the hands of a bunch of customers gets you feedback that you can use to improve the productThe next one up is product. Sometimes, working out your GTM strategy will cause you to change your product.The rest of the stack varies based on the specific industry and company. Frequently, revenue is next. First, answer a need. Then, monetize it.As you go from one scale to another, what is the path between them?Part of the thing is to figure out the stack for your particular business. Start at the bottom and work your way up.As you’re executing, when do you need speed as an offensive or defensive weapon? This forces you to consider your talent strategy (generalists to specialists; individuals to managers & executives; hiring recruiters and firms; upgrade your LinkedIn subscription.Organization and culture permeates the whole stack—almost a different dimension.Talent strategy: Runs across all the layers. You need the talent to execute at all the layers.Aside: It is a bad idea to have a head of strategy. Ranges between a placeholder title (at best) to a sign of a destructive misalignment in the organization. Useful to have a partner to help the CEO and founders think about this. But the strategy should be driven by the functional org that is primary. The key issue isn’t thinking about strategy; it’s how it is embodied in the organization. Strategy group that reports to the CEO is support staff; that may be acceptable.
Living in the Networked Age, all businesses hit larger groups of customers and create ecosystems faster than they used too. The software product cycle accelerates growth, while modern communications makes it far easier to connect with users and customers in other geographies. For example, Apple’s iOS app store gives you multinational reach the instant you launch an app. The app store is simultaneously a marketing channel, a distribution channel for delivering your product, a payment system, and a customer engagement channel. This is how Instagram was able to reach a global audience of over 100 million users with only 13 employees.Your globalization strategy has to start earlier than before, especially for businesses that cross borders easily. These may be businesses that are based on bits rather than atoms (e.g. payments), or services where the atoms follow the bits (e.g. Uber, Airbnb). There are a few local markets which are large enough to enable people to get to global scale more quickly and effectively. The biggest of these are the United States (which benefits from the English language’s role as a lingua franca) and China. In theory, Europe should provide such a common market, but in practice its market quite fragmented. There are also a few smaller markets that lack the scale of the US and China, but offer a unique environment that shelters local players from global competition and gives those companies the space to achieve critical mass. Japan falls into this category; India may yet grow to be in this category; Germany meets these criteria within Europe. One useful test is to ask, “Do they sustain their own car industry?” If a market is large enough to support a major automaker, it is large enough to allow a company to get to global scale. Korea fits into this category; the UK, France, and Italy are borderline.Globalization can take two forms: Internationalization, and Localization. Internationalization refers to architecting the business so that it can operate in many markets, while Localization refers to customizing a version of the business for the local conditions. McDonald’s trademark golden arches and store design are an example of internationalization; McDonald’s India’s mutton-based Maharaja Mac is an example of localizing the hamburger for a market where cows are considered sacred animals.

