The following writing is a compilation of advice given for improving Strategy, specifically for the Village size. The Village size refers to companies between 100 and 999 employees.

Village
At this stage, your view of the universe should be beginning to crystallize. You’ve made your bet, now you’re playing it out, and wondering if you should double down. As you make these decisions, you need to make sure you’re not drinking your own Kool-Aid. One of the ways I like to generate fresh, objective insight is to ask people, "If we were trying to compete with ourselves, what we would do? If we were a startup? Google? Facebook? Microsoft?" You can also seek outside perspectives, either from an independent board member, or by leveraging Network Intelligence.You also might start to consider playing defense. Until now, your sole focus has been offense. If you don’t have customers, why do you need to worry about retaining them? Now you should ask, “How can we lock out the competition?” Often, the answer is more blitzscaling. Being the first scaler helps you acquire customers, lock in investors, and attract the best talent. Both Yahoo and Excite were search engines from Stanford, but Yahoo’s first-scaler advantage gave it a head start that Excite could never overcome.
Now that you’ve hit the inflection point, achieved product-market fit, and are trying to blitzscale in earnest, you need to build your lead over the competition. Ideally, you have a better model that gives you a competitive advantage. Perhaps you’re viral and your competition isn’t. Maybe your product is more valuable, and you can reinvest your profits to scale. Google AdWords had a subtle superiority in its business model; because the advertising display algorithm took into account ad relevance as well as bids, Google was able to generate more relevant ads, higher clickthroughs, and greater revenues. Google then used its cashflow to buy distribution—Google could have used its advantage to make more money (much as Apple did with its premium pricing of the Macintosh when it had a monopoly on graphical user interfaces for personal computers), but instead lowered margins to the point where its competitors couldn’t compete without losing piles of money.More often, you find yourself on a relatively even playing field. Then you need to out-execute the competition.You still aren’t competing with the larger companies yet, but they are starting to track you. You may start getting acquisition offers. You also need to consider how your product interacts with their core business. For example, if you rely on Google search traffic, you need to ask a) if you’re affecting the quality of Google’s search results, and b) how likely is Google to shut off the spigot? Many a startup that relied on search engine optimization found itself losing momentum when Google adjusted its PageRank algorithm. Will the platform you rely on decide to help you? Stay neutral? Try to harm you? Facebook games benefits from Facebook’s support until Facebook decided that they were degrading the user experience. The same is true for social news sharing. The greatest threat you face may be one and the same with your greatest source of traffic.
Early-stage VCs, Growth VCsIf you have great revenue scale, bank capital may actually work. If you have really great revenue scale, you can fund growth out of cash flow.Dropbox has great revenue, but has taken capital from venture firms because of the ability to operate more aggressively in terms of growth (e.g. expanding into the enterprise with DFB), get recruiting and strategic help. Capital can be a component even if revenue could pay for everything.
When you reach significant scale, even atom-based businesses need to have a globalization plan since key elements like the supply chain and distribution are likely global. This is also the point at which your organization should hire an executive to be head of global or international. In extreme cases, you might have a US CEO and an International CEO (or a China CEO and an International CEO).

