The following writing is a compilation of advice given for improving Strategy, specifically for the Tribe size. The Tribe size refers to companies between 10 and 99 employees.

Tribe
At this stage, the zeitgeist is starting to come together, and others have probably noticed your pioneering efforts. Once this happens, other entrants may jump in, sensing a “hot space.” Think of crowdfunding, or “Uber for X”. Regardless of what you think of the quality of these competitors, they muddy the waters and make it harder for you to break out. That’s why stealth mode can actually make sense—it may delay the emergence of competition.Assuming that the competition has emerged, you can start to develop strategies to beat them. You're not letting your actions be dictated by the competition; by acting, you’re trying to dictate their actions. Part of the whole first-scaler advantage comes from setting the pace and making other people play by your playbook. One way to do this is to scale up faster than they do--raise more, hire more, scale more. In Europe, Rocket Internet has demonstrates the consistent ability to apply scale tactics to concepts that have already proven themselves in other markets. But this is a brittle strategy if you don't actually have true product/market fit, or if you don't have quality investors to fund your strategy. Back in 1999, the race was to go public before your competitors; the frothy markets allowed many companies to go public without ever establishing product/market fit. Ventro went public at a $2 billion valuation on $600,000 of annual revenues. When the public markets turned off the money spigot, those companies quickly perished.You can also try to beat the competition by picking and sticking to a specific competitive edge. At LinkedIn, we felt that being a social network was a better strategy than being an address book, which is what Plaxo tried to do. This belief kept us from panicking when Plaxo was showing growth because we knew were playing a different game. Other competitors such as Visible Path felt that the social network was owned by the user’s employer. We felt that it was important that it was owned by the individual. Finally, we didn’t worry about non-business social networks because our hypothesis was that professional and social were different. Not everyone agreed; Jeff Pulver, for example, publicly announced that he was closing down his LinkedIn account. I’m pleased to report that he is back: https://www.linkedin.com/pub/jeff-pulver/0/1/b50You have to have a differentiated hypothesis about the market. You might need to change the hypothesis along the way, based on data, but you should always have a hypothesis. The thing is, you probably feel competitively vulnerable at this phase…and in fact you are. But you can’t let those feelings of vulnerability drive you to secrecy. The problem is that being secretive cuts off your supply of network intelligence, right when you need it most to test your hypothesis. To successfully blitzscale, you need to research the unknowns and find what scales as quickly as possible. Your network can be a key part of your offensive strategy.But wait, you might be saying, I thought you recommended staying in stealth mode? Avoiding secrecy isn’t the same thing as seeking publicity; you can be non-secret without being publicity-seeking. You can talk with friends and potential customers without announcing your plans to the world, or at least TechCrunch.
Once your product is in the marketplace, the major threat is that your competitors learn faster and better than you. Don’t worry if a competitor takes an early “lead” in market share; the market is so nascent and immature that you can usually catch up later, even in cases a strong network effect exists. Remember, Google and Facebook were both fast followers, not first movers.Speed continues to be the basis of competition; the faster you iterate, the faster you can improve your product and differentiate it from your competitors. Watch out for anyone who seems to be learning faster than you!
At this point, you should probably start thinking about globalization, especially if you’re a digital service basd on bits rather than atoms.At LinkedIn, we didn’t anticipate how quickly the service would spread to other countries. Within the first several months, we had users from all 200 countries around the world. It gave us some good geography education—people would write in, “My country is not in your pull-down list.” Who knew the Faroe Islands were a nation? This island archipelago has less than 50,000 residents, and within a few months, we had to add it to our menu.To get ahead of the curve, start by asking yourself some key questions: “What’s the lowest-hanging fruit?” “Which countries and languages are easiest to handle?” “Which payment models and systems are similar?” As a relatively small organization, you need to be opportunistic, and find the easiest markets to enter.However, you also need to ask yourself this key strategic question: “In which markets is it most critical to gain early lock-in?” If certain markets are likely to undergo lock-in early, you need to prioritize those markets or risk being locked out (and being forced to buy your way in later).Finally, you need to evaluate whether your product is a good cultural fit with potential markets. In Japan for example, cultural factors seem to have a major impact on scale. Salesforce.com and Evernote are enormously successful because they are a good fit with a productivity-oriented culture. In contrast, Facebook only started to get pickup after “The Social Network” was released. Even today, LinkedIn has little market presence in Japan. Japanese work culture tends to emphasize lifetime loyalty to the company, and while this is changing, building a professional identity separate from your company is still viewed as disloyal. In Japan, LinkedIn tends only to be used by entrepreneurs, free agents, and expatriates.
