The following writing is a compilation of advice given for improving Strategy, specifically for the Nation size. The Nation size refers to companies over 10000 employees.

Nation
Remember back in PS1, when we discussed the Google fallacy? When you reach PS5, you’re an entire nation, and at most, you can only focus on 3-7 major things. As a result, the game changes once again.In this phase, acquisitions become important, if not essential. You can acquire an innovative technology and team, then feed them with massive resources as they scale. This is how Google blitzscaled Android. Acquisitions are the biggest offensive and defensive plays in your playbook. Think about how certain key acquisitions won a major market for their acquirers. The YouTube, Instagram, and Whatsapp were both defensive and offensive. Acquiring YouTube allowed Google to recover from its failed Google Video initiative, but it also kept YouTube out of the hands of other potential acquirers. Acquiring Instagram and Whatsapp helped defend Facebook against mobile incursions, but also made Facebook the leader in mobile.Financial strategy can also become competitive strategy. For example, Apple’s cash hoard allows it to move quickly and pay cash for any acquisition—two key advantages during a competitive bidding process.Finally, you may order your army to make attacks that yield little tactical advantage because they help the overall strategic situation. For example, Microsoft needs to field a search engine to compete with Google, even though it is unlikely to capture much market share, because Google is fielding productivity apps against Microsoft. You should try to make your opponent defend every bit of its territory, because if you succeed, your opponent will be stretched too thin to ward of the attacks you consider actually important.
One of the major threats that big companies face is government regulation. Your market power makes you a target. At PayPal, once we started competing with the banks, those banks went to state regulators and argued that PayPal was an unlicensed bank that was soliciting deposits.What’s interesting is that this threat is starting to apply ever earlier. Even when it was still relatively small, Airbnb faced scrutiny from municipal regulators. The key to addressing the regulatory threat is to realize that regulators have downside incentive, but no upside incentive. Regulators aren’t directly rewarded for allowing experimentation that results in value creation, but they get the blame if something goes wrong.Of course, building friendly relationships with regulatory bodies and individual regulators helps. But if you’re a consumer-facing company, you have a whole set of additional tools. Here’s how blitzscaling becomes a strategic answer to regulation: Achieving customer scale allows you to demonstrate the value of what you’re doing. For example, it was critical that Airbnb demonstrate the benefits it brings to both hosts and travelers so that there would be a concrete counterargument to the objections of the hotels. Moreover, achieving scale successfully dispels much of the standard fear, uncertainty, and doubt that incumbents like to spread. If you blitzscale and disaster doesn’t strike, those incumbents look like Chicken Little.Massive scale also allows you to harness people power. One option we discussed at PayPal (which we never implemented, by the way) was to put the regulator’s phone number in front of all of our affected users, so it would be easy for them to register their protests. Even if you don’t take such drastic steps, consumer sentiment is powerful. Uber has gotten into its share of fights with regulators, but the popularity of its service with voters grants it a degree of protection.
Rakuten’s Founder and CEO, Hiroshi Mikitani, launched an initiative that he dubbed “Englishnization,” by making English the official language of Rakuten’s 7,000 employees, regardless of geography, and including the company headquarters in Japan. He even set targets for English proficiency, and announced that managers who failed to meet those targets would risk being passed over for promotion or demoted.Mikitani’s goal was to make Rakuten a truly global company by ensuring that all employees would be able to communicate directly in a common language. Previously, interregional communication had relied on translators and interpreters, which necessarily imposed an additional layer of hassle and delay. By adopting English as the official corporate language, Mikitani was able to foster increased communication and coordination. In fact, one of the unintended consequences of the change was the need to establish clearer expectations around work hours, since there was a dramatic increase in the number of phone calls from Japan to Rakuten’s US office (when it’s 9 AM in Tokyo, it’s 8 PM in New York).Mikitani also found ways to make globalization part of his individual practice. Despite the hassle and time away from family, Mikitani takes two international trips each month. This frequent travel allows him to regularly visit Rakuten’s various offices, and also gives him new ideas. For example, experiencing the excitement and enthusiasm of a Barcelona marketplace informed the product direction he set for Rakuten’s online mall business.
