The following writing is a compilation of advice given for improving organization, specifically for the Village size. The Village size refers to companies between 100 and 999 employees.


Village
As the organization grows, the founding team needs to start differentiating their individual roles. Up to this point, you may have had a team of equals. Even if one founder had the title of CEO, the key decisions may still be made as a founding team.Now, the organization has to have a clear CEO (we’ll discuss the role of the CEO in depth in the next chapter). As a team, you have to decide whether to hire an outside CEO, or designate one of the founders as the undisputed CEO. This isn’t about phasing out the other founders—they remain important—rather, it is about providing organizational clarity. This is also why it is almost always a bad idea to name co-CEOs. How can you have organizational clarity when you have two final decision makers? There are, of course, notable exceptions. Our friend and colleague Aneel Bhusri has been very successful at Workday, where he and Dave Duffield are co-CEOs. They are able to make the arrangement work since they have been working together since 1993!Even after you choose or hire a CEO, the founders should retain special founder’s privileges. For example, as owners of the business, founders have a right to ask for the CEO’s time to discuss strategy and key decisions. Founders should have the right to express disagreement (one on one). This is one of the reasons being an outside CEO can be a frustrating role! Even if the founders don’t have a lot of people reporting to them, they still need to be “in the room” for important company decisions.What the founders are not allowed to do is to undermine the CEO or create dissention (versus dissent, which is usually healthy and constructive). Once she makes a decision, the founders should back her and do their best to drive that decision forward.Founders are still a part of the Executive Team, and work with the hired executives as peers, even if the founder reports to that executive in the hierarchy. It’s not always easy to context-switch between the two roles of peer and subordinate, but founders can do so because of their dual roles. Most founders are both a founder and something else: Founder & CEO; Founder & Executive; Founder & Manager; Founder & Individual Contributor. For the sake of the organization, founders need to make it clear which context applies when they are interacting with the other members of the organization. [EXAMPLE; PROVIDE A QUOTE OR SAMPLE COMMUNICATION]If you’re a non-CEO founder, your role is to focus on doing whatever the organization most needs to succeed. This might involve leading a functional area such as Sales or Engineering. It might involve being an external spokesperson for the company. You might work on being a good partner to the CEO. The exact role can vary because you’re the long-term committed person who doesn’t just treat your work as a job. This long-term perspective allows founders to do hard things that involve short-term pain to maximize the long-term gains to the organization.Besides functional roles, founders also serve as catalysts and culture bearers. Employees, investors, and customers know that they can count on founders to put the company first. A founder thinks, “I win because the company wins.”
Establish a department? Incentivize participation in the hiring process?You’re starting to shift from primarily hiring generalists to primarily hiring specialized talents. Unless you’re massively successful, a lot of the generalists who joined you earlier because they love startups might be looking to transition elsewhere. The new people who come in are more interested in stability than crossing uneven ground in the fog. Hiring gets harder because you can’t offer the startup experience (small size, intimate relationships, impact on the entire organization). But, there is another population of people who are looking for high-growth, Village-stage companies. These are folks who are trying to catch a rocket ship after it’s left the launchpad. But many blitzscaling companies don’t have that visible evidence of liftoff, yet still need to hire quickly.Your organization is in a “trough” because you’re not big enough to offer the perks of a big company like corporate universities and so on, but you’re too big to feel like a two-pizza startup.To work your way through this trough, you now need to establish a hiring or recruiting department, complete with an executive to lead it, whether a Head of Recruiting or Chief Talent Officer. This is the only way to handle the increased pace and burden of hiring during this stage. If you haven’t already, you should also institute formal hiring bonuses for referring candidates. Really ahead-of-the-curve companies extend these referral bonus programs to former employees as well as current ones; tapping your corporate alumni base for candidate referrals can be a great source of high-quality people.
This is the stage where your startup starts to break through and become a scaleup. To manage this growth, you need executives. But hiring executives triggers a cascade of consequences.First, you will probably have to hire from outside your company; the internal pool is simply too small, and too heavily weighted towards individual contributors. It’s still preferable to promote from within, but the benefit of doing so is by far a secondary concern in comparison to the primary objective of hiring executives with the requisite people skills.As you hire in your key executives, most of the managers who reported directly to the founders will find themselves reporting to newcomers. Hopefully you’ve done a good job of managing their expectations; even if you have, make sure that you ask yourself, “Am I doing what’s necessary to keep them engaged?” Every person should have a clear tour of duty: they should know their mission, what constitutes success, how that success helps the company, and how that success helps their career.Second, you will have to reorganize the company. To effectively leverage your managers, you need to be able to give each of them their own sandbox—a separable unit and task so that they can create a coherent and efficient work plan for their project. These sandboxes can and will change a lot as the company learns from being in the market. Don’t let people get too attached to job titles which might be obsolete in less than three months.These reorganizations will probably require one or more of the founders to report to a newly hired executive, which triggers the need for the founders to define their roles going forward. Almost universally, one of the challenges that founders have is that because they are good at starting companies, they are highly unlikely to be good at the very different activities involved in massive scale.Finally, just as you have to take into consideration the scalability of your founders and current employees, you also have to think about the scalability of the executives you’re hiring. Remember that you’re probably going to have to turn over at least 50% of your executive team before you reach the next stage of Organizational Scale. When executives are really good at a particular stage of blitzscaling, it’s often because their skills are tuned to the needs of that particular stage. One way to help scale up your executives is to supplement them with great supporting players, such as a Chief of Staff or key lieutenant. (See sidebar below)Given the size of the company, it also becomes more important to hire strong communicators. One-on-one relationships aren’t enough at this stage; your key leaders need to be able to address large groups and inspire them to action.You don’t have to hire a complete executive suite. You have to cover all the major functions (Sales, Marketing, Business Development, Product, Engineering, and Finance) but is usually the case that only one or two of the functions are truly critical path. These are the functions you should emphasize in your hiring, both in terms of quality and quantity. If a function isn’t critical path, you may be able to have a single executive cover multiple functions.Sidebar: Chief of StaffHistorically, the Chief of Staff position hasn’t been that common in blitzscaling companies, but this seems to be changing. A Chief of Staff differs from a COO or President because he or she doesn’t have a direct managerial relationship with line executives and managers. This is actually the point of the Chief of Staff; rather than serving as an intermediary between you and your reports, the Chief of Staff serves as a collaborator and organizer that helps the CEO or executive personally scale to execute across multiple problem sets and domains. The Chief of Staff could be a young, high-potential talent or an experienced executive. Intel’s Technical Assistant program is an example of the former, while the non-commissioned officers (NCOs) of the US military are an example of the latter. [WHAT SHOULD YOU LOOK FOR, AND WHY CHOOSE YOUNG VS EXPERIENCED?]. I hired an early Chief of Staff at LinkedIn, and he allowed me to be much higher leverage within the organization. [ADD SPECIFICS OF WHAT MATT COHLER ACTUALLY DID]. 
At this stage, the pace of hiring is such that you have to develop a formalized onboarding process. Common features include an actual employee manual that lays out what a new hire needs to know, and whom to talk with about various issues.This more formal onboarding may include specific techniques like having the new hire shadow an experienced employee to learn the ropes, and giving new hires (especially engineers) their own sandbox where they can try out (and if necessary, fail at) their new role and function. 
Once the organization passes Dunbar’s number, and is likely split into multiple buildings or even cities, push communications become the default way of keeping people on the same page. In addition to an “All” email alias, you probably also have aliases for each office, and each department. However, at this point, the company has so many simultaneous initiatives and projects, it’s impossible to keep every employee on the same page for everything. You have to focus on the most important items which affect nearly the entire organization.The primary communication channel for founders and executives is the formal company all-hands, which might now include live video broadcasting to loop in other offices. The all-hands also needs to have a formal questions period so that employees can request needed details and feel part of the decision-making process. The company all-hands is highly scalable; even today, LinkedIn conducts regular all-hands meetings, with the video beamed to offices outside Mountain View, and moderators in each office to gather questions for management.You’re probably also beginning to introduce some “pull” communications tools like formal FAQs—e.g. here’s how we use this tool, here’s how we handle security, here’s the expense report policy—to handle routine information requests.Given the size of the company and the increasingly important role it plays in your industry, you’re likely introducing making more of the company’s sensitive information secret. You’re probably not sharing the bank balance with all employees, or keeping people up to speed on the twists and turns of the latest fundraising effort. Some more secretive cultures might make this move earlier, but as the company gets closer to being a publicly-traded company, even the most open cultures have to make moves in this direction. 
The Village/City transition is another key shift, which means that it is also a good time to bring in a CEO. At LinkedIn, we brought in Jeff Weiner when we had around 400 employees, and he’s since scaled the company to nearly 10,000 employees. 
At this stage, the board of directors needs to make corporate governance a primary emphasis. While board members can help with the product with their skills, industry knowledge, and connections, their main job is to hire, fire, and compensate the CEO.The board might support one of the founders as CEO. The natural tension here is that the founder might think that building the company to this point makes her the natural choice for CEO, while the investors are focused on picking a CEO who can lead the company to its next phase. The board will have to evaluate the founder CEO candidate; if it doesn’t think the founder is the right person, it needs to generate and implement an action plan to bring the right person in.The key evaluation question is, “Is this candidate capable of blitzscaling this company to its next phase?” This can be broken down into “Which aspects of the company are on the critical path for scaling?” and “Is this candidate solid on these critical path aspects?” Trying to get every aspect of the company ready for scaling is a suboptimal ploy—the board has to focus exclusively on what really matters.A complicating factor is that the company may have raised multiple rounds of financing, which means the board has to take into consideration the needs of many stakeholders. The best way to handle this is to bring in truly independent board members. These “independents” can be a trusted catalyst to mediate the conflicting interests of investors, founders, and employees.It’s hard to find a good independent board members. Things like “brand” and attractiveness on an IPO prospectus are way down the wish list; the top item is the ability to contribute to an effective board, followed by the ability to work well with the CEO and executive team to scale the company. 
