The following writing is a compilation of blog posts and literature that are meant to be used as advice for organization when blitzscaling. They are applicable to all stages of a firm, including family, tribe, village, city, and nation.

All Stages

At this point, almost everyone in the startup world agrees that hiring and culture are important. Whenever these topics arise, it’s almost guaranteed that the discussion will touch on how every Google employee had to interview with Larry and Sergey before receiving an offer, how Zappos offers new employees $1,000 to quit to weed out those who aren’t true believers, and how uber-guru Peter Drucker said, “Culture eats strategy for breakfast.” These are inspiring stories and sound bites, but what they fail to do is to explain why hiring and culture are so important, and how to manage them as your startup scales.As with other key activities, a blitzscaling company has to repeatedly change its approach to hiring and culture. As you grow, everything from how you find job candidates to what kinds of employees you hire will have to change. In this environment of constant change—both in personnel and organizational structure—you need to develop a coherent culture that is a North Star that the organization and its members can rely on to help guide their actions. Hiring and culture go hand in hand because the primary driver of an organization’s culture is the additive effect of the people it hires, while one of the primary tools to help the organization hire and get the most out of the necessary people is the allure and disciplinary effect of a strong culture.A coherent culture needs to be specific, rather than simply an accumulation of agreeable platitudes. For example, Steve Jobs famously said, “A players like to work only with other A players, which means you can’t indulge B players.” It’s a great sound bite, but saying that your company has a high-performance culture of “A” players doesn’t provide enough useful differentiation. What is an “A” player? Someone who went to the right schools? Worked at the right companies? Can code 10x faster than the average developer? Your culture should attract the talent you want and repel the talent you don’t want. It is better to be loved by a few than liked by a multitude. If your culture doesn’t rule out “A” players who aren’t a good fit, it’s not specific enough.For example, the two companies I helped start, PayPal and LinkedIn, both had coherent cultures, but were radically different from each other. PayPal was very individualistic, with a lot of emphasis on hiring for high IQ and very little on emphasis on hiring for work experience. The company tempo had a frantic pace that tended to be driven by what I’d characterize as “structured panic.” In contrast, LinkedIn’s culture was far more collaborative and patient. We felt that we were seeing something that others didn’t (specifically, the value of a professional social network), and understood that it would take a long time for the world to come around. This meant that we needed to be patient and take multiple shots on goal, while remaining confident that we would eventually succeed. People that fit the PayPal culture tended not to fit the LinkedIn culture, and vice versa.To build your culture, you have to make tradeoffs. For example, do you want your culture to be individualistic or collaborative? Do you prioritize efficiency or innovation? Even characteristics that seem to be universal require thought and specificity. Most companies claim to be mission-driven, but there’s a world of difference between being seriously mission-driven (any decision that touches on the mission is a clear, black-and-white decision) or only lightly mission-driven (the mission is one of many factors considered).It’s also important to note that “bad” cultures can sometimes produce good companies. When it comes to culture, employees ask themselves, “All other things being equal, do I want to keep working here?” The thing is, in most cases, all other things aren’t equal. Many talented people will tolerate a bad culture (i.e. work in an environment in which they’d rather not work) to be part of a winning team. There is actually a long history of successful blitzscaling companies with aggressive, demanding cultures that burn out employees, break up their marriages, and discard them when no longer useful. Within Silicon Valley, companies like Oracle, Zynga, Uber, and yes, PayPal have been criticized for their culture, as have companies outside the Valley like Microsoft and Amazon. Those same companies have also defined new industries and created over a trillion dollars in shareholder value. At PayPal, we had a culture that was both good and bad. On the good side, we were young, aggressive, and intellectually honest. On the bad side, we were intolerant of compromise, dictatorial, dismissive of banking experience, and allowed pointed conflict between executives. Just in the year 2000, we had four different CEOs: Peter Thiel, Bill Harris, Elon Musk, and then Peter Thiel again. But because we got our business model right, we were successful.Culture is not destiny. It does, however, shape the environment you will be working in for years or decades to come, so choose wisely.Of course, your culture will continue to evolve as your company grows—it is a living set of principles, not a set of stone tablets—but radical changes should be avoided unless they are required to meet an existential threat to the organization.
For most of Silicon Valley’s history, the conventional wisdom on hiring executives into a startup was to bring in an executive who could scale. This meant hiring someone who had experience with bigger organizations, even if the hire was one or two phases early.In today’s startup world, this rule no longer applies. The Darwinian competition is so fierce that your organization needs to be “all in” on the current stage of scaling. You need executives who can manage the current phase of growth, because you won’t have to worry about that next phase if your team can’t actually get you there. Hiring someone who has been managing 1,000 people to contribute to a 10-person company is actually counterproductive, because the skills needed to succeed during those two phases are very different.The ideal, of course, is to hire executives who can excel at your current phase, and can stretch to cover the next phase as well. But that “scalability” is a secondary concern. The primary concern is current value. You can worry about whether to scale or replace an individual executive when the company approaches its next phase.People who can transition from world-class individual talent to world-class executive are even rarer than “unicorns”—billion-dollar startups.The terms “manager” and “executive” are often used interchangeably. We believe that managers and executives play very different roles. Most of the confusion probably comes from the tendency in early-stage startups for the same person to play the role of manager and executive. These are separate roles, even when the same person plays them.The role of the Manager is to lead a tribe on a hunting expedition; managers are frontline leaders who worry about day to day tactics. Managers create and implement detailed execution plans that either allow the organization to do new things, or do existing things more efficiently.In contrast, the role of the Executive is to lead Managers and their organizations. For the most part, executives don’t manage individual contributors. Instead, they focus on vision and strategy. Yet they are still connected to the frontline employees because they are also responsible for the “fighting spirit” of their organizations; they need to be role models who help people persist through inevitable adversity. Both Executives and Managers are necessary for successful blitzscaling.
Hiring the people you need to scale isn’t enough; a good onboarding process helps you get more out of those people, and improves their work experience and boosts your chances of retaining them.
One of the areas which undergoes the most change during the blitzscaling process is the internal communications process. You have to shift from informal, in-person, individual conversations to formal, electronic, “push” broadcasting, and online “pull” resources. You also have to shift from sharing all information by default to deciding on what is secret and what is shareable. If you don’t manage to develop an effective internal communications strategy, your organization will become disjointed and start to fall apart.
The current wisdom of Silicon Valley is that founders should remain CEO. Previously, founders were the specialists, the pioneers who would create, but not grow the company. The founder was the visionary, you brought in “grey haired” professional management to be the CEO.Today, many believe that the founder is the only one who has the moral authority and fortitude to lead.Both of these approaches have some good thinking in them, but both also have key limitations.The limitation of the old school approach of bringing in an outside CEO is that if that CEO doesn’t have the right skillset and visionary mentality (product-oriented, risk-taking, long-term committed), the company won’t be able to adapt to new technologies and markets, and probably won’t stay a world-changing company. The limitation of the new school of founder CEOs is that if the CEO doesn’t have the pragmatic management skills to navigate the rapid scale changes along the way, the company will get hung up on internal organizational issues long before it becomes a world-changing company. It’s simplest to find founders who have the combination of skills to scale all the way, but this is seldom possible. Nor is it true that the only path to success is a founder who stays CEO forever—most of LinkedIn’s success came after I managed a successful succession process that saw Jeff Weiner take over as CEO. Some folks in SV think that the moment the founder isn’t CEO, the company starts dying. But if you truly believe this, you limit the lifespan of important companies that generate innovation and jobs. One of Steve Jobs’ greatest accomplishments, in a career filled with amazing achievements, was transitioning the office of Apple CEO to Tim Cook. Thanks to both Steve and Tim, Apple has been able to overcome Steve’s untimely passing and become the world’s most profitable and valuable company. It’s important to note that Cook didn’t replace Jobs—an impossible task. Tim has been a very different kind of CEO than Steve, but has found his own way to succeed at his job, including breaking with Steve’s tradition of handling all of Apple’s major product announcements and ceding some of the responsibility for those product demos to other executives.The general way to solve this problem is to look for a combination of scaling skills and moral authority and commitment. You’d prefer to grow the founders, because this is the guaranteed way to solve the issues of moral authority and commitment. However, if your founding CEO and other founders are capable of being collaborative, they can bring in what are essentially new “co-founders,” which gives you a path to ask, “What is the best possible way to grow this company?”The right time to execute CEO succession plans is *before* your next blitzscaling phase. At each phase transition, you are likely to change your executive staff by 50% or more; each transition thus represents a chance to A) bring in a CEO, and B) give that CEO the opportunity to build the team that she believes can navigate that scale.Each CEO succession is a massive risk—will the CEO have the right skills? Can she develop the moral authority? Will the organization accept her? The chances of success are probably 50% or less. (The chances are higher if you’re just looking for a caretaker, but that’s not what blitzscaling companies look for) This is also why the founders need to stick around, to help the company recover if the risk doesn’t pay off. With Jeff Weiner, we had grown to like each other, but hadn’t worked together before. If it didn’t work out, I needed to stay close enough to the business to monitor the organization’s reaction to the transition, and make an adjustment if necessary. Fortunately, Jeff turned out to be a great fit for LinkedIn, and was even named CEO of the Year by Glassdoor.If you’re a Founder-CEO, you need to examine your skillset and compare it to the skillset the company will need to successful manage the next stage of blitzscaling. When your company grows from a Tribe into a Village, the CEO will need to shift from working directly with individual contributors to selecting and managing an executive team (in the true sense of the term, i.e. a team that executes). Ask yourself, “Is my skillset suited to scaling and leading executives, or is it better suited to detailed product work or long-term strategy?” When I decided to bring in a CEO for LinkedIn, I asked that very question. Ultimately, while I greatly respect and appreciate the work of building an organization, it’s not the work I like to do. And if you don’t like what you do, you’re not likely to be world class at it.Of course, as the founder, you do what is necessary. If you can’t find the right CEO to take over, you may have to go outside your comfort zone and tackle tasks that aren’t in your wheelhouse, but are critical to the success of the company.Internal and external CEO candidates have different pros and cons; which you ought to prefer will depend on the specific circumstances. On the one hand, you might prefer internal candidates because they know the company and how it operates, are clearly committed to the company. Internal candidates are generally lower risk.On the other hand, internal candidates are deeply embedded in the game as it is played already. Furthermore, because the internal candidate is part of a team of peers, it will probably be harder for the new CEO to reset those peer relationships into reporting relationships, and the executives who weren’t chosen will probably be at a greater risk of leaving.As a result of these factors, you tend to go internal when you’re playing the same game, and you tend to go external when you’re trying to change the game. 
Many entrepreneurs view the Board of Directors as a nuisance. They complain about having to waste time preparing for board meetings and responding to board requests. These entrepreneurs are dead wrong.While corporate governance may not seem like a big deal during the early stages of blitzscaling, the role of the Board of Directors is critical at scale, especially in providing connections to other key network nodes.In mature scaleup ecosystems like Silicon Valley, there exists a robust set of experienced, high-quality VCs. An ecosystem doesn’t need that many VCs; quality is more important than quantity. Boulder, Colorado is a small ecosystem without many investors, but the venture capitalists of the Foundry Group allow Boulder entrepreneurs to tap a deep set of experiences and networks.Boards are important connectors into the relevant networks that can help your company realize its opportunities and counteract its threats. Great venture capitalists can leverage their connectivity to accelerate a blitzscaling company’s access to financing, talent, and customers. Investors ought to be key partners and collaborators on fundraising strategy. They can also help recruit the talent you need, either informally (Benchmark recruiting Meg Whitman to eBay) or formally (venture capital firms like Greylock Partners, Kleiner Perkins, and Andreesen Horowitz have partners who focus solely on talent, including individual contributors in product/design/engineering as well as classic executive recruiting.) Established VCs have strong relationships with potential customers (for enterprise companies) or distribution partners (for consumer companies) thanks to their past portfolio companies.Regardless of phase, there are some key best practices for Board management. First, outside board members should be brought for a specific term, not indefinitely. You can always ask board members to serve another term, and this practice helps ensure that you have a clear reason for each board member to be there. Specific terms also provide opportunities to change board composition without having to ask board members to proactively resign.Second, you should have a clear idea of how each board member can add value, both individually, and more importantly, as part of the team. Far too many board members are selected for their brand value. A board of directors is a team, not a collection of “all-stars”. Hustle is a critical virtue. A world-famous CEO may look great on an annual report, but she may not have the time to be much help in scaling and running the business. 
Founders play a special role in every company. Think of the importance of America’s “Founding Fathers”, nearly 250 years later. Founders are the only people in the organization who can and should be counted on to consistently place the needs of the organization ahead of their own. While founders may have an official job title and position within the org chart, being a founder comes with its own privileges, responsibilities, and potential pitfalls, and these keep changing as the startup scales up.On the other hand, we have to be careful to avoid falling prey to the cult of the founder. People often view legendary founders as semi-divine beings with powers beyond those of mortal men and women. This kind of apotheosis does more harm than good by discouraging entrepreneurship from those who lack a megalomaniacal worldview and encouraging those entrepreneurs who do view themselves as the next Steve Jobs to adopt a similarly autocratic approach. Founders succeed because they have the right skills and the right team around them to start and scale the right company at the right time in the right market.Fit—and luck—are essential. No one is a “universal” founder that can succeed at anything. Steve Jobs’ perfectionism probably wouldn’t work well for someone starting a fast food chain. That perfectionism works for a high-talent workforce building a high-value product (elegant computers, award-winning animated movies), would not work well for enforcing the cost discipline needed for delivering a low-priced commodity.There are some universal skills that all founders need to succeed. You need the ability to take bold risks in pursuit of a vision that isn’t self-evident to others. You need the ability to learn (since you’re trying to do something brand new. And to play a long-term role at your scaleup, you need the ability to live with and resolve the inevitable paradoxes of being a founder. Maintaining a certain humility and a sense of perspective can help you navigate the changes in your role as your blitzscale your company. 
Entire libraries have been written about the role of the CEO. Rather than recapitulating those other works, in this book, we wiell restrict our focus to the two key roles of the CEO in a blitzscaling organization.The first key role is to decide which key people the organization will need to grow, and to execute on a plan to bring those people into the fold. Of course, this is easier said than done.One common mistake is to design the perfect organization, and then slot your people in using a “best fit” algorithm. This can result in trying to force square pegs into round holes. I know, because this is precisely the mistake I made as an inexperienced entrepreneur. Rather than adhering to a Platonic ideal, the specific people you already have (and their talents and passions) should influence the structure you define.You also need to consider the nature of your business; for example, Consumer Internet companies tend to make Engineering and Operations part of the same organizational group. This makes sense because the rapid product changes that Engineering releases directly impacts Operations; similarly, Operational concerns need to be baked into Engineering plans because a poorly performing site or app can be fatal to the company. Balancing the structural needs of the organization and the specific talents of the individuals is an art, not a science!Another common mistake is hiring people too far in advance. We’re not talking about hiring too many people too quickly, though this too is a problem. Rather, we’re referring to hiring people who are better suited to later phases of growth. The marketing executive who knows how to handle a $25 million budget for a 1,000-person company probably doesn’t have the right skills to help your bootstrapping garage startup get its initial product launch noticed. Fit matters just as much as raw talent. We’ll discuss the topic further when we cover Hiring and Culture later on.Finally, CEOs should avoid succumbing to the temptation of using the founders to fill in the organizational gaps. While it is certainly useful for founders to act as “chief cook and bottle washer,” and do whatever needs to be done, using the founders to plug holes is only effective as a short-term strategy. Long term, the CEO needs to hire leaders who can build the organization in a sustainable, scalable fashion.The second key role of the CEO is to embody and lead the organization’s strategy. This doesn’t mean that he or she has to take sole responsibility for generating that strategy. The best ideas should win, regardless of origin. But it does mean that the CEO has to know the strategy inside and out, and have the experience and skills to execute on that strategy. [EXAMPLE: E.G. IF YOU ASKED JEFF WEINER ABOUT X, HE’D SAY….]At LinkedIn, I hired Dan Nye, a well-respected and capable enterprise executive as CEO. Dan did a great job of building our organization and bringing good people on board. But I eventually realized that LinkedIn was not an Enterprise Software company. Rather, we were a Consumer Internet company that had an Enterprise Software company inside it. Even though Enterprise customers generated the bulk of our revenue, the consumer experience was the defining bellwether. That’s why I stepped back in as CEO, and why I then chose Jeff Weiner to run LinkedIn.Jeff’s Consumer Internet experience at Yahoo, where he managed 3,000 people and oversaw most of Yahoo’s key consumer-facing products like Mail, Search, and the Front Page, allowed him to embody and drive our strategy. One of the ways he won over our team was when the Operations team discovered that Jeff was one of the most active users of LinkedIn.com—globally, not just among senior managers. CEOs need to make hard decisions. When complex issues arise, your people, no matter how brilliant, will have different views of what’s important and what isn’t. And even if they are perfectly aligned with and focused on the best interests of the company, they will naturally disagree. As a result, the harder the decision, the more likely it is that the CEO will have to decide what really matters, and what to do about it. A CEO who doesn’t embody the strategy won’t be able to make the right calls.In the past, I’ve written about how I consider Jeff a co-founder of LinkedIn, even though he joined us over five years after the company was first formed. I believe that companies can have multiple inflection points that serve as founding moments, and you can be a co-founder if you play a critical role at one of those moments. To be a true co-founder, the incoming CEO needs to develop a good interface with the existing co-founders. These are the people who are known to be “all in” on the company’s mission; if they accept the new CEO as someone who is as “all in” as they, that acceptance conveys moral authority. (We cover this topic in greater detail in the previous chapter, The Role of the Founders)One final thing you should keep in mind is that there is no such thing as a universal CEO. “We’ll just hire someone from GE” often doesn’t work. Hiring the CEO as a GM with general “management” skills doesn’t work; the CEO has to have a firm grasp on the key drivers of success (product, technology, user experience (UX), customer demand) because speed is essential and without good instincts, you simply can’t act quickly enough.You can see this principle at work in when you consider how the background of the typical blitzscaling CEO has shifted over time. Earlier in the history of Silicon Valley, the biggest challenge that a scaleup faced was building out an effective distribution strategy. Growth required highly disciplined execution of sales and channel management. As a result, many companies tapped sales executives with proven go-to-market expertise to be CEO.In today’s world, product *is* distribution. Mobile app stores and freemium SaaS have supplanted shrink-wrapped software and resellers as the main way of reaching the customer. Thanks to the consumerization of IT, even enterprise software relies on seemingly consumer distribution strategies such as engineering virality into the product. And when customers choose the products, rather than relying on middlemen and intermediaries, building a killer product is more important than enlisting killer distribution partners. As a result, companies are far more likely to name CEOs with a track record of releasing killer products. At Microsoft, Steve Ballmer (a classic sales-oriented CEO) was succeeded by Satya Nadella (a modern product-oriented CEO).
The challenge that faces the founders, executives, and investors of a blitzscaling company is that the nature of the leadership required to succeed changes dramatically as the company scales up. The simplistic silver bullet approach of “hire the right people” glosses over a key fact: Very few people are great leaders at every phase from garage to global giant. A blitzscaling organization can scale exponentially, year after year. Most humans can’t do that; our scaling is generally linear at best, and may be too slow to keep up with the organization. We estimate that at any given phase, fewer than half of your executives can scale beyond their current roles.As you prepare to scale up the organization, you have to ask yourself two questions about your key people:• Can they scale?• Do they believe they can scale?Based on the answers, each of your people can be placed into one of four quadrants of a two by two matrix: Believes can’t scaleBelieves can scaleCan scaleProvide coaching to improve confidence and unlock potentialCongratulations, no need to do anything!Can’t scaleTry to find a new role that will be a better fit at the next stageTime for a difficult conversation When people can’t scale, the role of the leader is to find a replacement who can, and to try to find a new role that will be a better fit for the existing employee. Even if you don’t succeed, and the employee ends up leaving, the fact that the organization tried will become a part of its talent brand.Even those people are who are capable of “scaling” with the company will be best suited to one particular stage. Yet a scaleup can’t just hire a new leadership team each time it grows significantly. You don’t want to lose the continuity, experience, and hard-won expertise.Instead of a single silver bullet, you need to blend a variety of approaches, including growing and developing the talent you already have in the organization, recruiting new talent with relevant blitzscaling skills, and successfully incorporating both elements into a coherent, effective organization and culture. Much of the responsibility for recruiting and developing talent belongs to your firm’s individual managers. We discuss our recommended talent management philosophy in depth in our previous book, The Alliance: Managing Talent in the Networked Age. By structuring work as series of “tours of duty,” you can acknowledge the reality that few employees will stay with one company their entire career. If the company scales beyond an employee’s abilities or comfort zone, you should still celebrate the successes they had, and maintain an alliance of mutual trust and benefit even after they have moved on to another company. If you or your managers need a pragmatic, concrete guide on how to recruit and develop your talent, we recommend reading The Alliance. You can find an executive summary of the book on its website, www.theallianceframework.com.In the following section of this book, we’ll focus on higher-level people processes and strategy, including internal communications, transparency, coordination, and other elements of your organization that will change during the blitzscaling process.
