The following writing is a compilation of advice given for improving organization, specifically for the City size. The City size refers to companies between 1000 and 9999 employees.


City
In the 1990s, British anthropologist Robin Dunbar postulated that the human brain’s cognitive limits keep us from maintaining stable social relationships with more than around 150 people. This is known as Dunbar’s Number. During the first three phases of Organizational Scale, it is possible for an individual member of the organization to know all the other members of the organization. But once a company reaches OS4, you can’t rely on people relationships to govern and manage the organization. Clear rules and boundaries become critical.Breaking through Dunbar’s number also changes the experience of being a founder. You might find yourself thinking that things don’t “feel” like they used to during the good old days. You don’t know all the people you run into when you prowl through the office. These changes often lead to some of the founders leaving the organization.The founders who choose to stay may see their roles evolve further. Some founders will have the skills to work at and remain part of the core executive team. Founders who lack the seniority and experience to do so might serve as line executives who manage individual teams, or even as individual contributors. The organization might create a special role for a founder who is valuable, but isn’t well-suited for management, such as working towards the long-term future, special projects, or acting as a company spokesperson. [PROVIDE AN EXAMPLE, SUCH AS HOW REID SPENDS HIS DAY AT LINKEDIN]At LinkedIn, I removed myself from line management during the OS4 phase. As a founder, I wanted to build the greatest possible strengths in the organization, so I hired Jeff Weiner when the company had around 400 employees. I wasn’t passionate about being a line executive; Jeff is passionate about running an organization, which allows him to be world class in that role (in a way that I couldn’t).
At this stage, you’re probably going to start breaking the organization up into business units. A general manager can probably handle up to eight direct reports. Those direct reports can each handle another eight reports themselves, and those reports can manage the frontline employees. This rule of thumb limits groups to roughly 400 to 800 employees. 
At this scale, onboarding has to go from simply being formalized to being truly industrialized. You’re now hiring so many people that individual manual onboarding can’t handle the load. Some of the techniques to try include onboarding people in “classes” so that onboarding becomes one-to-many rather than just one-to-one, as well as automating large chunks of the onboarding process by creating welcome videos and other interactive training for new employees. It was during this phase, for example, that the HR team at LinkedIn developed our online training platform, LearnIn, to help onboard new employees and help current employees stay up to date on the latest developments at the company.
At the City stage, your organization is definitely spread across multiple offices, and probably across multiple time zones and even continents. Not only is it impossible for a single employee to know all the other employees of the company, it’s highly improbable they even know all the other employees in their office. WHAT IS A HYPERCUBE NETWORK?The information that the founders and leaders broadcast is, perforce, restricted to high-level information, with more detailed information broadcast by department heads, general managers, and regional leaders.Given the scale of the company, having a good company directory with powerful search capabilities becomes very important. While I’m glad that many companies seem to rely on LinkedIn to meet this need, the fact is that a publicly-accessible social network doesn’t allow you to discover which employees are involved with critical initiatives. You need to productize communication so that employees use scalable internal tools, and not unscalable people to find out what they need to know.For example, what processes do you put in place around investing in other companies? This is especially relevant if your company is publicly traded. Whereas before, you might have told managers to ask Joe from Legal, you probably need a formal conflict resolution process with actual forms and structured data.If you hadn’t already begun to restrict usage of the “All” email alias at the previous stage, you definitely do it here! “All” becomes a pure broadcast tool without the ability to reply-all. 
Even if you plan on being CEO into your 70s, you have to have a succession plan so that your company can live on after you’re gone. Life is also terribly uncertain; it’s irresponsible not to have a succession plan. You owe it to your employees, to the world around you, and to the impact on the world you’ve wanted to have). 
At this stage, the company should start bringing in board members who look good on the IPO prospectus. Note that this is mostly, but not perfectly correlated with the ability to help the company be successful in the long term. Yet even though the board member’s brand matters, competency matters more. The board is still a team, not a collection of all-stars. For that matter, a person who wants to be on your board to enhance their own brand is not someone you want; they will be risk-averse.If you don’t have independent board members yet, you’re well past due. In fact, you need more than one. One of the requirements of going public is being able the handle the requirements of a diversified shareholder base.The board members still have to perform the vital governance role of evaluating the CEO and executive team. The best way to do this is for each key executive to be “owned” by a board member, who will develop a closer working relationship with that executive. These relationships are essential for evaluating the CEO and her potential successors. The art is developing these relationships without undermining the CEO. The board members should have the competence to talk with executives without introducing problems. That means avoiding damaging questions like "So, what is the CEO's greatest weakness," in favor of something like "What do you see as the greatest challenges and opportunities facing the company?" This also provides the board member with a window into the thought processes of the executive.Finally, given the success the company has achieved to date, the board has a responsibility to preserve asset value. This means playing defense as well as offense. This is another reason why the board members that were suitable for an earlier stage might not be at this stage. 
